title: Vaccination with mRNA-electroporated dendritic cells induces robust tumor antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells responses in stage III and IV melanoma patients

## Aarntzen, Erik H J G. and Schreibelt, Gerty and Bol, Kalijn and Lesterhuis, W Joost and Croockewit, Alexandra J. and de Wilt, Johannes H W. and van Rossum, Michelle M. and Blokx, Willeke A M. and Jacobs, Joannes F M. and Duiveman-de Boer, Tjitske and Schuurhuis, Danita H. and Mus, Roel and Thielemans, Kris and de Vries, I Jolanda M. and Figdor, Carl G. and Punt, Cornelis J A. and Adema, Gosse J.
CLINCR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-3368">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Electroporation of dendritic cells (DC) with mRNA encoding tumor-associated antigens (TAA) has multiple advantages compared to peptide loading. We investigated the immunologic and clinical responses to vaccination with mRNA-electroporated DC in stage III and IV melanoma patients.Twenty-six stage III HLA*02:01 melanoma patients scheduled for radical lymph node dissection (stage III) and 19 melanoma patients with irresectable locoregional or distant metastatic disease (referred to as stage IV) were included. Monocyte-derived DC, electroporated with mRNA encoding gp100 and tyrosinase, were pulsed with keyhole limpet hemocyanin and administered intranodally. TAA-specific T-cell responses were monitored in blood and skin-test infiltrating lymphocyte (SKIL) cultures.Comparable numbers of vaccine-induced CD8(+) and/or CD4(+) TAA-specific T-cell responses were detected in SKIL cultures; 17/26 stage III patients and 11/19 stage IV patients. Strikingly, in this population, TAA-specific CD8(+) T cells that recognize multiple epitopes and produce elevated levels of IFNγ upon antigenic challenge in vitro, were significantly more often observed in stage III patients; 15/17 versus 3/11 stage IV patients, P = 0.0033. In stage IV patients, one mixed and one partial response were documented. The presence or absence of IFNγ-producing TAA-specific CD8(+) T cells in stage IV patients was associated with marked difference in median overall survival of 24.1 months versus 11.0 months, respectively.Vaccination with mRNA-electroporated DC induces a broad repertoire of IFNγ producing TAA-specific CD8(+) and CD4(+) T-cell responses, particularly in stage III melanoma patients.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Aarn12a.pdf:pdfAarn12a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>