title: The effects of adjuvant experimental radioimmunotherapy and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy on intestinal and abdominal healing after cytoreductive surgery for peritoneal carcinomatosis in the rat

## Aarts, F. and Bleichrodt, R. P. and de Man, B. and Lomme, R. and Boerman, O. C. and Hendriks, T.
AOSO

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1245/s10434-008-0070-4">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Cytoreductive surgery (CS) followed by hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) results in limited survival benefit and high morbidity and mortality rates in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC). Radioimmunotherapy (RIT) after CS of experimental PC has been shown to increase survival and compare favorably to HIPEC. The effects of RIT and HIPEC on wound healing after CS need to be determined.PC was induced by intraperitoneal inoculation of CC-531 colon carcinoma cells in Wag/Rij rats. Animals were subjected to CS and anastomotic construction only or followed by RIT or HIPEC. RIT consisted of 74 MBq (177)lutetium-labeled anti-CC531 antibody MG1. HIPEC was performed by a closed abdominal perfusion technique using mitomycin-C during 60 minutes. Anastomotic and abdominal wall strength measurements were performed 3 and 5 days after surgery.At day 5, bursting pressure in ileum and colon anastomoses in the CS + HIPEC group, but not in the CS + RIT group, was lower (P < .01) than in the CS group. In the CS group, the colonic bursting site was more often outside the true anastomotic area (8 of 12 animals) than in the CS + HIPEC (1 of 12) and CS + RIT (5 of 12) groups. Abdominal wall strength in the CS + HIPEC group was significantly (P < .01) lower, at both measuring points, than that in both the CS group and the CS + RIT group. There was no difference between the latter.As adjuvant to CS, HIPEC showed a decrease in anastomotic and abdominal wall wound strength in a model of PC of CRC, whereas RIT did not.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfAart08.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>