title: Stent placement in patients with atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis and impaired renal function: a randomized trial

## Liesbeth Bax and Arend-Jan J Woittiez and Hans J Kouwenberg and Willem P T M Mali and Erik Buskens and Frederik J A Beek and Branko Braam and Frans T M Huysmans and Leo J Schultze Kool and Matthieu J C M Rutten and Cornelius J Doorenbos and Johannes C N M Aarts and Ton J Rabelink and Pierre-Fran?ois Plouin and Alain Raynaud and Gert A van Montfrans and Jim A Reekers and Anton H van den Meiracker and Peter M T Pattynama and Peter J G van de Ven and Dammis Vroegindeweij and Abraham A Kroon and Michiel W de Haan and Cornelis T Postma and Jaap J Beutler
AOIM


## Abstract
Little is known about the efficacy and safety of renal artery stenting in patients with atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) and impaired renal function.To determine the efficacy and safety of stent placement in patients with ARAS and impaired renal function.Randomized clinical trial. Randomization was centralized and computer generated, and allocation was assigned by e-mail. Patients, providers, and persons who assessed outcomes were not blinded to treatment assignment.10 European medical centers.140 patients with creatinine clearance less than 80 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) and ARAS of 50% or greater.Stent placement and medical treatment (64 patients) or medical treatment only (76 patients). Medical treatment consisted of antihypertensive treatment, a statin, and aspirin.The primary end point was a 20% or greater decrease in creatinine clearance. Secondary end points included safety and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.Forty-six of 64 patients assigned to stent placement had the procedure. Ten of the 64 patients (16%) in the stent placement group and 16 patients (22%) in the medication group reached the primary end point (hazard ratio, 0.73 [95% CI, 0.33 to 1.61]). Serious complications occurred in the stent group, including 2 procedure-related deaths (3%), 1 late death secondary to an infected hematoma, and 1 patient who required dialysis secondary to cholesterol embolism. The groups did not differ for other secondary end points.Many patients were falsely identified as having renal artery stenosis greater than 50% by noninvasive imaging and did not ultimately require stenting.Stent placement with medical treatment had no clear effect on progression of impaired renal function but led to a small number of significant procedure-related complications. The study findings favor a conservative approach to patients with ARAS, focused on cardiovascular risk factor management and avoiding stenting.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Bax09.pdf:pdfBax09.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>