title: The Sixth International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis

## R. Beichel and K. Farahani and C. Jacobs and S. Kabus and A. P. Kiraly and J. M. Kuhnigk and J. McClelland and K. Mori and J. Petersen and S. Rit

## Abstract
These are the proceedings of the sixth edition of the International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis, held in conjunction with the Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) Conference 2016 in Athens, Greece. The International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis brings together researchers in pulmonary image analysis to discuss new developments in the field. For the sixth edition of the workshop, all submitted papers received thorough reviews by at least three reviewers. In total, eight papers were accepted for presentation at the workshop, of which five were selected for oral presentation and three for poster presentation. The presented papers deal with dierent aspects of pulmonary image analysis, including computer aided diagnosis, segmentation, and registration. We would like to thank the organizers of MICCAI 2016 for hosting the sixth edition of the International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis and for handling the logistics of the workshop, and all colleagues involved in the peer-review process.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Beic16.pdf:pdf/Beic16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>