title: The Fourth International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis

## R. Beichel and M. de Bruijne and B. van Ginneken and S. Kabus and A. Kiraly and J. M. Kuhnigk and J. McClelland and K. Mori and E. M. van Rikxoort and S. Rit

## Abstract
This was the fourth time that a satellite workshop solely devoted to pulmonary image analysis was held in conjunction with the Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) Conference. We have received many high quality submissions for the fourth edition of this workshop. All papers underwent a thorough peer review process. A team of 21 scientists performed peer-reviews, and each paper received at least three detailed reviews. Out of the 24 accepted papers, eight were selected for oral presentation, fourteen for poster presentation and two for software demonstration. In addition, the workshop included an invited keynote talk given by Heidi Roberts, Professor of Radiology at the University of Toronto. The proceedings of this workshop are organized into two parts. The first part consists of sixteen regular workshop papers that deal with different aspects of pulmonary image analysis, including topics like segmentation, registration, quantification, computer-aided detection/diagnosis of lung disease, and visualization. The second part of the proceedings is a collection of papers submitted for the international segmentation challenge called LOLA11 (LObe and Lung Analysis 2011, http://www.lola11.com). The goal of LOLA11 was to compare methods for (semi-) automatic segmentation of the lungs and lobes from chest computed tomography scans. Nine international teams participated in this challenge. We thank the organizers of MICCAI 2011 for handling the workshop logistics and all the colleagues that were involved in the peer-review process. We are grateful to Siemens Corporate Research, MedQIA, Philips Healthcare, and VIDA Diagnostics for the financial support of the Fourth International Workshop on Pulmonary Image Analysis.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Beic11.pdf:pdfBeic11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>