title: A Randomized Trial of Intraarterial Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke

## Berkhemer, Olvert A. and Fransen, Puck S S. and Beumer, Debbie and van den Berg, Lucie A. and Lingsma, Hester F. and Yoo, Albert J. and Schonewille, Wouter J. and Vos, Jan Albert and Nederkoorn, Paul J. and Wermer, Marieke J H. and van Walderveen, Marianne A A. and Staals, Julie and Hofmeijer, Jeannette and van Oostayen, Jacques A. and Nijeholt, Geert J Lycklama `A. and Boiten, Jelis and Brouwer, Patrick A. and Emmer, Bart J. and de Bruijn, Sebastiaan F. and van Dijk, Lukas C. and Kappelle, L Jaap and Lo, Rob H. and van Dijk, Ewoud J. and de Vries, Joost and de Kort, Paul L M. and van Rooij, Willem Jan J. and van den Berg, Jan S P. and van Hasselt, Boudewijn A A M. and Aerden, Leo A M. and Dallinga, Ren'e J. and Visser, Marieke C. and Bot, Joseph C J. and Vroomen, Patrick C. and Eshghi, Omid and Schreuder, Tobien H C M L. and Heijboer, Roel J J. and Keizer, Koos and Tielbeek, Alexander V. and den Hertog, Heleen M. and Gerrits, Dick G. and van den Berg-Vos, Renske M. and Karas, Giorgos B. and Steyerberg, Ewout W. and Flach, H Zwenneke and Marquering, Henk A. and Sprengers, Marieke E S. and Jenniskens, Sjoerd F M. and Beenen, Ludo F M. and van den Berg, Ren'e and Koudstaal, Peter J. and van Zwam, Wim H. and Roos, Yvo B W E M. and van der Lugt, Aad and van Oostenbrugge, Robert J. and Majoie, Charles B L M. and Dippel, Diederik W J. and , the M. R C. L. E. A. N Investigators
NEJM


## Abstract
Background In patients with acute ischemic stroke caused by a proximal intracranial arterial occlusion, intraarterial treatment is highly effective for emergency revascularization. However, proof of a beneficial effect on functional outcome is lacking. Methods We randomly assigned eligible patients to either intraarterial treatment plus usual care or usual care alone. Eligible patients had a proximal arterial occlusion in the anterior cerebral circulation that was confirmed on vessel imaging and that could be treated intraarterially within 6 hours after symptom onset. The primary outcome was the modified Rankin scale score at 90 days; this categorical scale measures functional outcome, with scores ranging from 0 (no symptoms) to 6 (death). The treatment effect was estimated with ordinal logistic regression as a common odds ratio, adjusted for prespecified prognostic factors. The adjusted common odds ratio measured the likelihood that intraarterial treatment would lead to lower modified Rankin scores, as compared with usual care alone (shift analysis). Results We enrolled 500 patients at 16 medical centers in the Netherlands (233 assigned to intraarterial treatment and 267 to usual care alone). The mean age was 65 years (range, 23 to 96), and 445 patients (89.0%) were treated with intravenous alteplase before randomization. Retrievable stents were used in 190 of the 233 patients (81.5%) assigned to intraarterial treatment. The adjusted common odds ratio was 1.67 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.21 to 2.30). There was an absolute difference of 13.5 percentage points (95% CI, 5.9 to 21.2) in the rate of functional independence (modified Rankin score, 0 to 2) in favor of the intervention (32.6% vs. 19.1%). There were no significant differences in mortality or the occurrence of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. Conclusions In patients with acute ischemic stroke caused by a proximal intracranial occlusion of the anterior circulation, intraarterial treatment administered within 6 hours after stroke onset was effective and safe. (Funded by the Dutch Heart Foundation and others; MR CLEAN Netherlands Trial Registry number, NTR1804 , and Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN10888758 .).

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Berk14a.pdf:pdfBerk14a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>