title: FDG PET/CT: EANM procedure guidelines for tumour imaging: version 2.0.

## Boellaard, Ronald and Delgado-Bolton, Roberto and Oyen, Wim J G and Giammarile, Francesco and Tatsch, Klaus and Eschner, Wolfgang and Verzijlbergen, Fred J and Barrington, Sally F and Pike, Lucy C and Weber, Wolfgang A and Stroobants, Sigrid and Delbeke, Dominique and Donohoe, Kevin J and Holbrook, Scott and Graham, Michael M and Testanera, Giorgio and Hoekstra, Otto S and Zijlstra, Josee and Visser, Eric and Hoekstra, Corneline J and Pruim, Jan and Willemsen, Antoon and Arends, Bertjan and Kotzerke, Jörg and Bockisch, Andreas and Beyer, Thomas and Chiti, Arturo and Krause, Bernd J and European Association of Nuclear Medicine (EANM)
European journal of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00259-014-2961-x">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The purpose of these guidelines is to assist physicians in recommending, performing, interpreting and reporting the results of FDG PET/CT for oncological imaging of adult patients. PET is a quantitative imaging technique and therefore requires a common quality control (QC)/quality assurance (QA) procedure to maintain the accuracy and precision of quantitation. Repeatability and reproducibility are two essential requirements for any quantitative measurement and/or imaging biomarker. Repeatability relates to the uncertainty in obtaining the same result in the same patient when he or she is examined more than once on the same system. However, imaging biomarkers should also have adequate reproducibility, i.e. the ability to yield the same result in the same patient when that patient is examined on different systems and at different imaging sites. Adequate repeatability and reproducibility are essential for the clinical management of patients and the use of FDG PET/CT within multicentre trials. A common standardised imaging procedure will help promote the appropriate use of FDG PET/CT imaging and increase the value of publications and, therefore, their contribution to evidence-based medicine. Moreover, consistency in numerical values between platforms and institutes that acquire the data will potentially enhance the role of semiquantitative and quantitative image interpretation. Precision and accuracy are additionally important as FDG PET/CT is used to evaluate tumour response as well as for diagnosis, prognosis and staging. Therefore both the previous and these new guidelines specifically aim to achieve standardised uptake value harmonisation in multicentre settings.

