title: Prophylactic vaccines are potent activators of monocyte-derived dendritic cells and drive effective anti-tumor responses in melanoma patients at the cost of toxicity.

## Bol, Kalijn F. and Aarntzen, Erik H J G. and Pots, Jeanette M. and Olde Nordkamp, Michel A M. and van de Rakt, Mandy W M M. and Scharenborg, Nicole M. and de Boer, Annemiek J. and van Oorschot, Tom G M. and Croockewit, Sandra A J. and Blokx, Willeke A M. and Oyen, Wim J G. and Boerman, Otto C. and Mus, Roel D M. and van Rossum, Michelle M. and van der Graaf, Chantal A A. and Punt, Cornelis J A. and Adema, Gosse J. and Figdor, Carl G. and de Vries, I Jolanda M. and Schreibelt, Gerty
Cancer Immunol Immunother

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00262-016-1796-7">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is explored worldwide in cancer patients, predominantly with DC matured with pro-inflammatory cytokines and prostaglandin E2. We studied the safety and efficacy of vaccination with monocyte-derived DC matured with a cocktail of prophylactic vaccines that contain clinical-grade Toll-like receptor ligands (BCG, Typhim, Act-HIB) and prostaglandin E2 (VAC-DC). Stage III and IV melanoma patients were vaccinated via intranodal injection (12 patients) or combined intradermal/intravenous injection (16 patients) with VAC-DC loaded with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and mRNA encoding tumor antigens gp100 and tyrosinase. Tumor antigen-specific T cell responses were monitored in blood and skin-test infiltrating-lymphocyte cultures. Almost all patients mounted prophylactic vaccine- or KLH-specific immune responses. Both after intranodal injection and after intradermal/intravenous injection, tumor antigen-specific immune responses were detected, which coincide with longer overall survival in stage IV melanoma patients. VAC-DC induce local and systemic CTC grade 2 and 3 toxicity, which is most likely caused by BCG in the maturation cocktail. The side effects were self-limiting or resolved upon a short period of systemic steroid therapy. We conclude that VAC-DC can induce functional tumor-specific responses. Unfortunately, toxicity observed after vaccination precludes the general application of VAC-DC, since in DC maturated with prophylactic vaccines BCG appears to be essential in the maturation cocktail.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Bol16.pdf:pdfBol16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>