title: Quantification of plaque volume, shear stress on the endothelium, and mechanical properties of the arterial wall with intravascular ultrasound imaging

## Bom, N. and de Korte, C. L. and Wentzel, J. J. and Krams, R. and Carlier, S. G. and van der Steen, A. W. and Slager, C. J. and Roelandt, J. R.
ZKARD


## Abstract
Present intravascular echographic imaging (IVUS) is based on either the mechanically rotated single element catheter or the multi-element phased array catheter principle. In both methods the ultrasonic beam is rotated through 360 degrees and the cross-sectional echo image of plaque and wall structures is visualised. A new development based on intravascular ultrasound is calculation of mechanical properties of the arterial wall. In this so-called elastographic approach, high frequency information obtained at identical positions in the arterial wall is compared under systolic and diastolic pressures. Minute shifts in the echo data indicate local compressibility. It thus becomes possible to indicate areas of high or low strain, which correspond to soft and hard material. Three-dimensional information can be obtained if the position of cross sectional slices is recorded with a pull-back device and slices are united into a 3D image. On the basis of such information it has become possible to view stents in 3D, and with interactive software, to calculate automatically plaque volume. With pull-back information only, the artery is reconstructed as a "straight pipe". Only when the biplane X-ray information is combined with the intravascular pull-back echo information can the true 3D reconstruction of the artery be constructed. Given the true geometric lumen information, it becomes possible, under certain assumptions, to derive the luminal fluid dynamics. From this, shear stress values close to the arterial wall can be calculated. Under the assumption that low values for local shear stress are areas prone to restenosis, predictions of endangered areas can be made.

