title: Arm raising at exposure-controlled multidetector trauma CT of thoracoabdominal region: higher image quality, lower radiation dose

## Monique Brink and Frank de Lange and Luuk J Oostveen and Helena M Dekker and Digna R Kool and Jaap Deunk and Michael J R Edwards and Cornelis van Kuijk and Richard L Kamman and Johan G Blickman
Radiology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2492080169">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To evaluate the effect of arm position on image quality and effective radiation dose in an automatic exposure-controlled (AEC) multidetector thoracoabdominal computed tomography (CT) protocol in trauma patients.This retrospective study of the data of 177 trauma patients (117 male; median age, 39 years) was approved by the institutional ethics board, with informed patient consent waived. Patients underwent scanning by using an AEC 16-detector thoracoabdominal CT protocol in which both arms were raised above the shoulder region (standard-position group, 132 patients), one arm was raised and the other was down (one-arm group, 27 patients), or both arms were down (two-arm group, 18 patients). Objective and subjective image quality was assessed. Individual effective radiation dose was calculated from the effective tube current-time product per exposed section. For this purpose, section location-dependent conversion factors were derived by using a CT dosimetry calculator. The effect of arm position on effective dose was quantified by using linear regression analysis with correction for patient volume and attenuation.Compared with the image quality in the standard-position group, the image quality in the one- and two-arm groups was decreased but within acceptable diagnostic limits. The median corrected effective dose in the standard-position group was 18.6 mSv; the dose in the one-arm group was 18% (95% confidence interval: 11%, 25%) higher than this, and that in the two-arm group was 45% (95% confidence interval: 34%, 57%) higher.Omitting arm raising results in lower but acceptable image quality and a substantially higher effective radiation dose. Hence, effort should be made to position the arms above the shoulder when scanning trauma patients. Clinical trial registration no. NCT00228111.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Brin08.pdf:pdfBrin08.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>