title: High Performance of F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography and Contrast-Enhanced CT in a Rapid Outpatient Diagnostic Program for Patients with Suspected Lung Cancer

## Brocken, Pepijn and van der Heijden, Henricus F M. and Dekhuijzen, P N Richard and Peters-Bax, Liesbeth and de Geus-Oei, Lioe-Fee
Respiration

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1159/000347096">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Background: The diagnostic evaluation of patients presenting with possible lung cancer is often complex and time consuming. A rapid outpatient diagnostic program (RODP) including (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) as a routine diagnostic tool may improve timeliness, however the diagnostic performance of such a combined approach of RODP remains unclear. Objectives: We evaluated timeliness of care and diagnostic performance of FDG-PET and contrast-enhanced CT (FDG-PET/CT) in an RODP for all patients referred with a chest X-ray suspicious of lung cancer. Methods: Charts of patients referred to the 2-day RODP of our tertiary care university clinic after an abnormal chest X-ray between 1999 and 2009 were reviewed. Between 1999 and 2005 co-registered FDG-PET and CT imaging took place; from September 2005 onwards, a hybrid system was used. We analyzed timeliness of care and diagnostic performance of FDG-PET/CT to differentiate malignant from benign lesions. Results: In 386 patients available for analysis, 260 were diagnosed with lung cancer and 23 had another type of malignancy; in 78 patients benign disease was confirmed, and in another 45 the diagnosis was not pathologically confirmed but a median 24.5-month follow-up confirmed a benign outcome. Sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values and accuracy of FDG-PET/CT to differentiate lung cancer from benign disease were 97.7, 60.2, 92.5, 84.0 and 85.8%, respectively. Lung cancer patients had a median referral, diagnostic and therapeutic delay of 7, 2 and 19 days, respectively. Conclusions: FDG-PET/CT in an RODP setting for suspected lung cancer has high performance in detecting cancer and facilitates timely care.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Broc14.pdf:pdfBroc14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>