title: Risk factors for COPD exacerbations in inhaled medication users: the COPDGene study biannual longitudinal follow-up prospective cohort

## Busch, Robert and Han, MeiLan K and Bowler, Russell P and Dransfield, Mark T and Wells, J Michael and Regan, Elizabeth A and Hersh, Craig P and COPDGene Investigators
BMCPM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1186/s12890-016-0191-7">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Despite inhaled medications that decrease exacerbation risk, some COPD patients experience frequent exacerbations. We determined prospective risk factors for exacerbations among subjects in the COPDGene Study taking inhaled medications.2113 COPD subjects were categorized into four medication use patterns: triple therapy with tiotropium (TIO) plus long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled-corticosteroid (ICS), tiotropium alone, ICS, and short-acting bronchodilators. Self-reported exacerbations were recorded in telephone and web-based longitudinal follow-up surveys. Associations with exacerbations were determined within each medication group using four separate logistic regression models. A head-to-head analysis compared exacerbation risk among subjects using tiotropium vs. ICS.In separate logistic regression models, the presence of gastroesophageal reflux, female gender, and higher scores on the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire were significant predictors of exacerbator status within multiple medication groups (reflux: OR 1.62-2.75; female gender: OR 1.53 - OR 1.90; SGRQ: OR 1.02-1.03). Subjects taking either ICS or tiotropium had similar baseline characteristics, allowing comparison between these two groups. In the head-to-head comparison, tiotropium users showed a trend towards lower rates of exacerbations (OR=0.69 [95 % CI 0.45, 1.06], p=0.09) compared with ICS users, especially in subjects without comorbid asthma (OR=0.56 [95% CI 0.31, 1.00], p=0.05).Each common COPD medication usage group showed unique risk factor patterns associated with increased risk of exacerbations, which may help clinicians identify subjects at risk. Compared to similar subjects using ICS, those taking tiotropium showed a trend towards reduced exacerbation risk, especially in subjects without asthma.ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00608764, first received 1/28/2008.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Busc16.pdf:pdfBusc16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>