title: Longitudinal multiple sclerosis lesion segmentation: Resource and challenge.

## Carass, Aaron and Roy, Snehashis and Jog, Amod and Cuzzocreo, Jennifer L and Magrath, Elizabeth and Gherman, Adrian and Button, Julia and Nguyen, James and Prados, Ferran and Sudre, Carole H and Jorge Cardoso, Manuel and Cawley, Niamh and Ciccarelli, Olga and Wheeler-Kingshott, Claudia A M and Ourselin, Sébastien and Catanese, Laurence and Deshpande, Hrishikesh and Maurel, Pierre and Commowick, Olivier and Barillot, Christian and Tomas-Fernandez, Xavier and Warfield, Simon K and Vaidya, Suthirth and Chunduru, Abhijith and Muthuganapathy, Ramanathan and Krishnamurthi, Ganapathy and Jesson, Andrew and Arbel, Tal and Maier, Oskar and Handels, Heinz and Iheme, Leonardo O and Unay, Devrim and Jain, Saurabh and Sima, Diana M and Smeets, Dirk and Ghafoorian, Mohsen and Platel, Bram and Birenbaum, Ariel and Greenspan, Hayit and Bazin, Pierre-Louis and Calabresi, Peter A and Crainiceanu, Ciprian M and Ellingsen, Lotta M and Reich, Daniel S and Prince, Jerry L and Pham, Dzung L
NeuroImage

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.12.064">DOI</a>

## Abstract
In conjunction with the ISBI 2015 conference, we organized a longitudinal lesion segmentation challenge providing training and test data to registered participants. The training data consisted of five subjects with a mean of 4.4 time-points, and test data of fourteen subjects with a mean of 4.4 time-points. All 82 data sets had the white matter lesions associated with multiple sclerosis delineated by two human expert raters. Eleven teams submitted results using state-of-the-art lesion segmentation algorithms to the challenge, with ten teams presenting their results at the conference. We present a quantitative evaluation comparing the consistency of the two raters as well as exploring the performance of the eleven submitted results in addition to three other lesion segmentation algorithms. The challenge presented three unique opportunities: (1) the sharing of a rich data set; (2) collaboration and comparison of the various avenues of research being pursued in the community; and (3) a review and refinement of the evaluation metrics currently in use. We report on the performance of the challenge participants, as well as the construction and evaluation of a consensus delineation. The image data and manual delineations will continue to be available for download, through an evaluation website(2) as a resource for future researchers in the area. This data resource provides a platform to compare existing methods in a fair and consistent manner to each other and multiple manual raters.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Cara17.pdf:pdfCara17.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>