title: Sensitivity of airway wall thickness measurements: influence of small airways

## Charbonnier, JP. and Hogeweg, L. and Kuhnigk, J. and Lynch, D. A. and Van Rikxoort, E. M.
RSNA


## Abstract
PURPOSE Changes in the morphology of the airways contributes to lung function impairment in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Measurements of airway morphology might be influenced by the quality of the airway segmentation. In this study we investigate the stability of a commonly used airway measurement (Pi10) from CT scans for varying segmentation depths of the airways. METHOD AND MATERIALS Inspiratory low-dose thoracic CT scans of 267 subjects, well distributed over GOLD stages, were selected for this study. Airways were automatically extracted by a state-of-the-art segmentation method and manually corrected to ensure a leakage free segmentation. Airway wall thickness quantification was performed in orthogonal cross-sections every 1mm throughout the entire airway tree using an intensity-integration technique which accounts for partial volume effects. Using regression on all cross-sectional measurements, airway morphology was expressed as the square root of wall area at airways with a perimeter of 10mm (Pi10). To determine the sensitivity of the Pi10 measurement to the length of the segmented airway tree, sensitivity analysis was performed on Pi10 by leaving-out wall measurements of the smallest airways and recalculating the Pi10. For each subject, Pi10 regression analysis was repeated excluding airways with a lumen perimeter below 6mm, 8mm or 10mm. The recalculated Pi10 measurements were compared to the baseline Pi10. RESULTS The segmented airway trees consisted for 55% of airways with lumen diameters below 10mm, 19% below 8mm, and 1% below 6mm.The average baseline Pi10 of all subjects was 2.43 +/- 0.56 (range [1.40, 4.36]), which corresponds to an average airway wall thickness (for an airway with a lumen perimeter of 10mm) of 0.52mm +/- 0.21mm. By excluding airways with a lumen perimeter below 6, 8 or 10mm from the regression analysis, absolute changes in Pi10 were 0.003 +/- 0.004 (0.11%), 0.035 +/- 0.023 (1.46%), and 0.107 +/- 0.087 (4.6%), respectively, corresponding to changes in airway wall thickness (at 10mm lumen perimeter) of 0.001, 0.013, and 0.039mm. CONCLUSION The commonly used Pi10 measurement to express airway morphology from a CT scan is insensitive to the exclusion of smaller airways in the computation. CLINICAL RELEVANCE/APPLICATION When expressing airway morhplogy as Pi10, there is no need to (manually) adjust automatic airway segmentation methods to include smaller airways in order to obtain an accurate Pi10 measurement.

