title: Recessive TTN truncating mutations define novel forms of core myopathy with heart disease

## Chauveau, Claire and Bonnemann, Carsten G. and Julien, Cedric and Kho, Ay Lin and Marks, Harold and Talim, Beril and Maury, Philippe and Arne-Bes, Marie Christine and Uro-Coste, Emmanuelle and Alexandrovich, Alexander and Vihola, Anna and Schafer, Sebastian and Kaufmann, Beth and Medne, Livija and H"ubner, Norbert and Foley, A Reghan and Santi, Mariarita and Udd, Bjarne and Topaloglu, Haluk and Moore, Steven A. and Gotthardt, Michael and Samuels, Mark E. and Gautel, Mathias and Ferreiro, Ana
HUMMG

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/hmg/ddt494">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Core myopathies (CM), the main non-dystrophic myopathies in childhood, remain genetically unexplained in many cases. Heart disease is not considered part of the typical CM spectrum. No congenital heart defect has been reported, and childhood-onset cardiomyopathy has been documented in only two CM families with homozygous mutations of the TTN gene. TTN encodes titin, a giant protein of striated muscles. Recently, heterozygous TTN truncating mutations have also been reported as a major cause of dominant dilated cardiomyopathy. However, relatively few TTN mutations and phenotypes are known, and titin pathophysiological role in cardiac and skeletal muscle conditions is incompletely understood. We analyzed a series of 23 families with congenital CM and primary heart disease using TTN M-line-targeted sequencing followed in selected patients by whole-exome sequencing and functional studies. We identified seven novel homozygous or compound heterozygous TTN mutations (five in the M-line, five truncating) in 17% patients. Heterozygous parents were healthy. Phenotype analysis identified four novel titinopathies, including cardiac septal defects, left ventricular non-compaction, Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy or arthrogryposis. Additionally, in vitro studies documented the first-reported absence of a functional titin kinase domain in humans, leading to a severe antenatal phenotype. We establish that CM are associated with a large range of heart conditions of which TTN mutations are a major cause, thereby expanding the TTN mutational and phenotypic spectrum. Additionally, our results suggest titin kinase implication in cardiac morphogenesis and demonstrate that heterozygous TTN truncating mutations may not manifest unless associated with a second mutation, reassessing the paradigm of their dominant expression.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Chau14a.pdf:pdf/Chau14a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>