title: Factors affecting the unexpected failure of DCE-MRI to determine the optimal biological dose of the vascular targeting agent NGR-hTNF in solid cancer patients

## Desar, Ingrid M E. and van Herpen, Carla M L. and van Asten, Jack J A. and Fiedler, Walter and Marreaud, Sandrine and Timmer-Bonte, Johanna N H. and Ter Voert, Edwin G W. and Lambiase, Antonio and Bordignon, Claudio and Heerschap, Arend and van Laarhoven, Hanneke W M.
EJR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejrad.2010.08.045">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To understand which factors could affect the assessment of anti-vascular treatment by DCE-MRI, we investigated possible causes that could have hampered the selection of an optimal biological dose in humans of the vascular targeted agent NGR-hTNF by DCE-MRI: (1) insufficient reproducibility of DCE-MRI; (2) less specific targeting of NGR-hTNF; (3) interference of vessel characteristics with NGR-hTNF efficacy; (4) interfering pharmacodynamic effects.In a phase I study NGR-hTNF, DCE-MRI was performed at baseline and 2h after NGR-hTNF administration in 31 patients with advanced solid cancer. Reproducibility measurements were performed in 5 other non-treated patients with metastatic disease. Mean k(ep), K(trans) values and their histogram distribution were determined in metastases and healthy liver tissue. The correlation between tumour size and DCE-MRI parameters was determined. Kinetics of soluble TNF receptors and the development of anti-TNF antibodies were assessed.Reproducibility of the DCE-MRI technique was adequate. Mean DCE-MRI parameters did not significantly change after NGR-hTNF administration, but histogram analyses showed significant changes in metastases and healthy liver tissue in some patients. The anti-vascular effects of NGR-hTNF were larger in smaller tumours, which have less mature neovasculature. Soluble TNF receptors were released.The difficulty to find an optimal biological dose of NGR-TNF by DCE-MRI is likely caused by a combination of factors: (i) different profiles of early anti-vascular effects in tumours and healthy liver tissue, (ii) dependence of the magnitude of the anti-vascular effect of NGR-hTNF on tumour size and (iii) shedding kinetics of soluble TNFa receptors.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Desa11.pdf:pdfDesa11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>