title: Magnetic resonance imaging for the detection, localisation, and characterisation of prostate cancer: recommendations from a European consensus meeting

## Louise Dickinson and Hashim U Ahmed and Clare Allen and Jelle O Barentsz and Brendan Carey and Jurgen J F"utterer and Stijn W Heijmink and Peter J Hoskin and Alex Kirkham and Anwar R Padhani and Raj Persad and Philippe Puech and Shonit Punwani and Aslam S Sohaib and Bertrand Tombal and Arnauld Villers and Jan van der Meulen and Mark Emberton
EU

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2010.12.009">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) may have a role in detecting clinically significant prostate cancer in men with raised serum prostate-specific antigen levels. Variations in technique and the interpretation of images have contributed to inconsistency in its reported performance characteristics.Our aim was to make recommendations on a standardised method for the conduct, interpretation, and reporting of prostate mpMRI for prostate cancer detection and localisation.A consensus meeting of 16 European prostate cancer experts was held that followed the UCLA-RAND Appropriateness Method and facilitated by an independent chair.Before the meeting, 520 items were scored for "appropriateness" by panel members, discussed face to face, and rescored.Agreement was reached in 67% of 260 items related to imaging sequence parameters. T2-weighted, dynamic contrast-enhanced, and diffusion-weighted MRI were the key sequences incorporated into the minimum requirements. Consensus was also reached on 54% of 260 items related to image interpretation and reporting, including features of malignancy on individual sequences. A 5-point scale was agreed on for communicating the probability of malignancy, with a minimum of 16 prostatic regions of interest, to include a pictorial representation of suspicious foci. Limitations relate to consensus methodology. Dominant personalities are known to affect the opinions of the group and were countered by a neutral chairperson.Consensus was reached on a number of areas related to the conduct, interpretation, and reporting of mpMRI for the detection, localisation, and characterisation of prostate cancer. Before optimal dissemination of this technology, these outcomes will require formal validation in prospective trials.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Dick11.pdf:pdfDick11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>