title: 111In-cetuximab-F(ab')2 SPECT imaging for quantification of accessible epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR) in HNSCC xenografts

## van Dijk, Laura K. and Hoeben, Bianca A W. and Stegeman, Hanneke and Kaanders, Johannes H A M. and Franssen, Gerben M. and Boerman, Otto C. and Bussink, Johan
RTO

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radonc.2013.06.034">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Immunohistochemical epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression does not correlate with treatment response in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). Aim was to apply the tracer (111)In-cetuximab-F(ab')2 for EGFR microSPECT imaging and to investigate if tracer uptake correlated with response to EGFR-inhibition by cetuximab in HNSCC xenografts. Usage of F(ab)2 fragments allows for shorter interval between tracer injection and imaging.Mice with HNSCC xenografts, SCCNij202, 153, 185 and 167 were imaged with microSPECT using (111)In-cetuximab-F(ab')2. Subsequently, tumors were analyzed by autoradiography and immunohistochemistry and tracer concentration was determined. Tumor uptake was correlated with previously assessed response to cetuximab treatment.MicroSPECT imaging showed preferential uptake in HNSCC xenografts. Tumor-to-liver ratios were 3.1 ± 0.2 (SCCNij202), 2.8 ± 0.4 (SCCNij153), 2.0 ± 0.8 (SCCNij185), 2.0 ± 0.4 (SCCNij167). Immunohistochemical EGFR fractions (fEGFR) differed significantly between xenografts; 0.77 ± 0.07 (SCCNij202), 0.66 ± 0.11 (SCCNij153), 0.57 ± 0.19 (SCCNij185), 0.16 ± 0.10 (SCCNij167) (p < 0.001). Tumor fEGFR correlated with (111)In-cetuximab-F(ab')2 tumor uptake (r = 0.6, p < 0.01) and tracer autoradiography (r = 0.7, p < 0.0001). Tumor uptake of (111)In-cetuximab-F(ab')2 was proportionally associated with cetuximab treatment response in three out of four xenograft models.(111)In-cetuximab-F(ab')2 showed good tumor-to-background contrast on microSPECT imaging, allowing noninvasive assessment of EGFR expression in vivo, and possibly evaluation of treatment response to EGFR-inhibition.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Dijk13c.pdf:pdfDijk13c.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>