title: Imaging integrin alpha-v-beta-3 expression in tumors with an 18F-labeled dimeric RGD peptide

## Dijkgraaf, Ingrid and Terry, Samantha Y A. and McBride, William J. and Goldenberg, David M. and Laverman, Peter and Franssen, Gerben M. and Oyen, Wim J G. and Boerman, Otto C.
CONMMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/cmmi.1523">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Integrin αv β3 receptors are expressed on activated endothelial cells during neovascularization to maintain tumor growth. Many radiolabeled probes utilize the tight and specific association between the arginine-glycine-aspartatic acid (RGD) peptide and integrin αv β3 , but one main obstacle for any clinical application of these probes is the laborious multistep radiosynthesis of (18)F. In this study, the dimeric RGD peptide, E-[c(RGDfK)]2, was conjugated with NODAGA and radiolabeled with (18)F in a simple one-pot process with a radiolabeling yield of 20%, the whole process lasting only 45 min. NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 labeled with (18)F at a specific activity of 1.8 MBq nmol(-1) and a radiochemical purity of 100% could be achieved. The logP value of (18)F-labeled NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 was -4.26 ± 0.02. In biodistribution studies, (18)F-NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 cleared rapidly from the blood with 0.03 ± 0.01 percentage injected dose per gram (%ID g(-1)) in the blood at 2 h p.i., mainly via the kidneys, and showed good in vivo stability. Tumor uptake of (18)F-NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 (3.44 ± 0.20 %ID g(-1), 2 h p.i.) was significantly lower than that of reference compounds (68) Ga-labeled NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 (6.26 ± 0.76 %ID g(-1) ; p <0.001) and (111) In-labeled NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 (4.99 ± 0.64 %ID g(-1) ; p < 0.01). Co-injection of an excess of unlabeled NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 along with (18)F-NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 resulted in significantly reduced radioactivity concentrations in the tumor (0.85 ± 0.13 %ID g(-1)). The αv β3 integrin-expressing SK-RC-52 tumor could be successfully visualized by microPET with (18)F-labeled NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 . In conclusion, NODAGA-E-[c(RGDfK)]2 could be labeled rapidly with (18)F using a direct aqueous, one-pot method and it accumulated specifically in αv β3 integrin-expressing SK-RC-52 tumors, allowing for visualization by microPET.

