title: Sj"ogren-Larsson syndrome: clinical and MRI/MRS findings in FALDH-deficient patients

## van Domburg, P. H. and Willemsen, M. A. and Rotteveel, J. J. and de Jong, J. G. and Thijssen, H. O. and Heerschap, A. and Cruysberg, J. R. and Wanders, R. J. and Gabre"els, F. J. and Steijlen, P. M.
Neurology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.52.7.1345">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To determine the spectrum of clinical and MRI/1H MRS features of patients with fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH) deficiency.The Sjogren-Larsson syndrome (SLS) was originally defined as a clinical triad consisting of ichthyosis, spastic di- or tetralegia, and mental retardation, with autosomal recessive inheritance. By now, both the deficiency of the enzyme FALDH, and the genetic mutations on chromosome 17 responsible for this deficiency, have been identified. SLS, defined by fibroblast FALDH deficiency, seems to be a much broader syndrome.The clinical findings of 11 FALDH-deficient patients of different ages and one patient with the characteristic SLS-like ichthyosis, but without FALDH deficiency, were evaluated in relation to their cerebral MRI, and to 1H MRS in six patients.The severity of neurologic symptoms showed considerable variation. Fundoscopic perifoveal glistening dots and the characteristic SLS-like ichthyosis were present in all patients. Serial MRI findings showed evidence of retarded myelination and a variable degree of dysmyelination. 1H MRS showed an accumulation of free lipids in the periventricular white matter, even before the stage of visible dysmyelination.The neurologic consequences of FALDH deficiency show considerable variation. The characteristic pattern of ichthyosis and retinal degeneration are seen consistently, yet they are not pathognomonic. MRI and 1H MRS findings suggest an accumulation of long-chain fatty alcohol intermediates, resulting in retarded myelination and dysmyelination.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Domb99.pdf:pdfDomb99.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>