title: Induction chemotherapy with docetaxel/cisplatin/5-fluorouracil followed by randomization to two cisplatin-based concomitant chemoradiotherapy schedules in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer (CONDOR study) (Dutch Head and Neck Society 08-01): A randomized phase II study.

## Driessen, C. M. L. and de Boer, J. P. and Gelderblom, H. and Rasch, C. R. N. and de Jong, M. A. and Verbist, B. M. and Melchers, W. J. G. and Tesselaar, M. E. T. and van der Graaf, W. T. A. and Kaanders, J. H. A. M. and van Herpen, C. M. L.
Eur J Cancer

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejca.2015.09.024">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To study the feasibility of induction chemotherapy added to concomitant cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer (LAHNC).LAHNC patients were treated with 4 courses of docetaxel/cisplatin/5-fluorouracil (TPF) followed by randomization to either cisplatin 100 mg/m(2) with conventional radiotherapy (cis100 + RT) or cisplatin 40 mg/m(2) weekly with accelerated radiotherapy (cis40 + ART). Primary endpoint was feasibility, defined as receiving ? 90% of the scheduled total radiation dose. Based on power analysis 70 patients were needed.65 patients were enrolled. The data safety monitoring board advised to prematurely terminate the study, because only 22% and 41% (32% in total) of the patients treated with cis100 + RT (n = 27) and cis40 + ART (n = 29) could receive the planned dose cisplatin during CRT, respectively, even though the primary endpoint was reached. Most common grade 3-4 toxicity was febrile neutropenia (18%) during TPF and dehydration (26% vs 14%), dysphagia (26% vs 24%) and mucositis (22% vs 57%) during cis100 + RT and cis40 + ART, respectively. For the patients treated with cis100 + RT and cis40 + ART, two years progression free survival and overall survival were 70% and 78% versus 72% and 79%, respectively.After TPF induction chemotherapy, cisplatin-containing CRT is not feasible in LAHNC patients, because the total planned cisplatin dose could only be administered in 32% of the patients due to toxicity. However, all but 2 patients received more than 90% of the planned radiotherapy. Clinical Trials Information: NCT00774319.

