title: The effect of exercise training on cardiac remodelling in children and young adults with corrected tetralogy of Fallot or Fontan circulation: a randomized controlled trial.

## Duppen, N. and Kapusta, L. and de Rijke, Y. B. and Snoeren, M. and Kuipers, I. M. and Koopman, L. P. and Blank, A. C. and Blom, N. A. and Dulfer, K. and Utens, E M W J. and Hopman, M T E. and Helbing, W. A.
Int J Cardiol

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcard.2014.10.031">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Exercise can improve physical fitness in children and adults with congenital heart disease. We hypothesized that exercise training would not lead to adverse cardiac remodelling in this population.This multi-centre randomized controlled trial included children and young adults (10 to 25 years) with either corrected tetralogy of Fallot or Fontan circulation. The exercise-group was enrolled in a 12 week standardized aerobic dynamic exercise training program. The control-group continued their life-style and received care as usual. Both groups underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), echocardiography and neurohormonal assessment, within 2 weeks before and 2 weeks after the intervention period. Fifty-six patients were randomized to the exercise-group and 37 to the control-group. We assessed changes between the pre- and the post-intervention period for the exercise group compared to the changes in the control-group. Peak load increased significantly in the exercise-group compared to the control-group (exercise-group 6.9 ± 11.8 W; control-group 0.8 ± 13.9 W; p=0.047). There were no adverse events linked to the study. Ventricular systolic parameters, cardiac dimensions and neurohormonal markers during follow-up did not change in patients allocated to the exercise-group and control-group. Although there were some isolated minor changes in inflow parameters, there was no consistent pattern of changes, indicating a lack of true change in the diastolic function.We demonstrated that no clinically relevant adverse cardiac remodelling occurred after 12 weeks of exercise training in patients with either corrected tetralogy of Fallot or Fontan circulation.www.trialregister.nl, identification NTR2731.

