title: White matter changes in comatose survivors of anoxic ischemic encephalopathy and traumatic brain injury: comparative diffusion-tensor imaging study

## van der Eerden, Anke W. and Khalilzadeh, Omid and Perlbarg, Vincent and Dinkel, Julien and Sanchez, Paola and Vos, Pieter E. and Luyt, Charles-Edouard and Stevens, Robert D. and Menjot de Champfleur, Nicolas and Delmaire, Christine and Tollard, Eleonore and Gupta, Rajiv and Dormont, Didier and Laureys, Steven and Benali, Habib and Vanhaudenhuyse, Audrey and Galanaud, Damien and Puybasset, Louis and , N. I. C. E. R (Neuro Imaging for Coma Emergence and Recovery) Consortium
Radiology


## Abstract
To analyze white matter pathologic abnormalities by using diffusion-tensor (DT) imaging in a multicenter prospective cohort of comatose patients following cardiac arrest or traumatic brain injury (TBI).Institutional review board approval and informed consent from proxies and control subjects were obtained. DT imaging was performed 5-57 days after insult in 49 cardiac arrest and 40 TBI patients. To control for DT imaging-processing variability, patients' values were normalized to those of 111 control subjects. Automated segmentation software calculated normalized axial diffusivity (λ1) and radial diffusivity (λ⊥) in 19 predefined white matter regions of interest (ROIs). DT imaging variables were compared by using general linear modeling, and side-to-side Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated. P values were corrected for multiple testing (Bonferroni).In central white matter, λ1 differed from that in control subjects in six of seven TBI ROIs and five of seven cardiac arrest ROIs (all P < .01). The λ⊥ differed from that in control subjects in all ROIs in both patient groups (P < .01). In hemispheres, λ1 was decreased compared with that in control subjects in three of 12 TBI ROIs (P < .05) and nine of 12 cardiac arrest ROIs (P < .01). The λ⊥ was increased in all TBI ROIs (P < .01) and in seven of 12 cardiac arrest ROIs (P < .05). Cerebral hemisphere λ1 was lower in cardiac arrest than in TBI in six of 12 ROIs (P < .01), while λ⊥ was higher in TBI than in cardiac arrest in eight of 12 ROIs (P < .01). Diffusivity values were symmetrically distributed in cardiac arrest (P < .001 for side-to-side correlation) but not in TBI patients.DT imaging findings are consistent with the known predominance of cerebral hemisphere axonal injury in cardiac arrest and chiefly central myelin injury in TBI. This consistency supports the validity of DT imaging for differentiating axon and myelin damage in vivo in humans.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Eerd14.pdf:pdfEerd14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>