title: Scintigraphic imaging of P-glycoprotein expression with a radiolabelled antibody

## van Eerd, Julli"ette E M. and de Geus-Oei, Lioe-Fee and Oyen, Wim J G. and Corstens, Frans H M. and Boerman, Otto C.
EJNMMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00259-006-0152-0">DOI</a>

## Abstract
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is a membrane efflux pump protein that is involved in multidrug resistance (MDR). Tumour cells with high P-gp expression show poor response to cancer treatment with several chemotherapeutics. In vivo targeting and visualisation of P-gp expression would allow MDR to be evaluated non-invasively prior to treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of visualising P-gp expression in tumours using a monoclonal anti-P-gp antibody, 15D3.Nude BALB/c mice with subcutaneously growing human uterine sarcoma cell tumours with either high (MES-SA/Dx5 1977) or low (MES-SA 1976) P-gp expression were used. When tumours were 0.2-0.4 g, mice received (131)I-15D3 or (111)In-DTPA-15D3 monoclonal anti-P-gp antibody intravenously. Images were acquired up to 3 days p.i. and radioactivity concentration in various tissues was determined after euthanisation of the animals.The images demonstrated that radioactivity accumulated to a higher concentration in high P-gp expressing tumours than in the low P-gp expressing MES-SA 1976 tumour. Furthermore, visualisation of the P-gp expressing tumours was superior with (111)In-DTPA-15D3 than with (131)I-15D3. After injection of (111)In-DTPA-15D3, the high P-gp expressing MES-SA/Dx5 1977 tumours were clearly visualised at 3 days p.i. The biodistribution data indicated that radioactivity concentration in the high P-gp expressing tumours was higher than in the tumours with low P-gp expression (20.78+/-1.42 %ID/g for MES-SA/Dx5 1977 tumours and 8.39+/-3.78 %ID/g for MES-SA 1976 tumours for (111)In-DTPA-15D3).The (111)In-labelled monoclonal anti-P-gp antibody clearly visualised P-gp expression in a human uterine sarcoma tumour in nude mice.

