title: Therapy response monitoring of the early effects of a new BRAF inhibitor on melanoma xenograft in mice: evaluation of (18) F-FDG-PET and (18) F-FLT-PET

## Geven, Edwin J W. and Evers, Stefan and Nayak, Tapan K. and Bergstr"om, Mats and Su, Fei and Gerrits, Danny and Franssen, Gerben M. and Boerman, Otto C.
CONMMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/cmmi.1619">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Inhibition of the V600E mutated BRAF kinase gene (BRAF(V600E) ) is an important and effective approach to treating melanomas. A new specific small molecule inhibitor of BRAF(V600E) , PLX3603, showed potent melanoma growth-inhibiting characteristics in preclinical studies and is currently under clinical investigation. In this study we investigated the feasibility of (18) F-FDG and (18) F-FLT-PET to monitor the early effects of the BRAF(V600E) inhibitor in mice with melanoma xenografts. SCID/beige mice with subcutaneous (s.c.) A375 melanoma xenografts, expressing BRAF(V600E) , received the BRAF(V600E) inhibitor twice daily orally (0, 25, 50 and 75 mg/kg). At 1, 3 and 7 days after start of therapy, the uptake of (18) F-FDG and (18) F-FLT in the tumor and normal tissues was determined in ex vivo tissue samples. Serial (18) F-FDG and (18) F-FLT-PET scans were acquired of animals at 1 day before and 1, 3 and 7 days after start of treatment with 75 mg/kg BRAF(V600E) inhibitor. A dose-dependent decrease in (18) F-FDG uptake in the A375 tumors was observed by ex vivo biodistribution analysis. Administration of 75 mg/kg BRAF inhibitor for 1, 3 and 7 days resulted in a significantly decreased (18) F-FDG uptake in A375 tumors (41, 35 and 51%, respectively). (18) F-FLT uptake in the A375 tumors was low at baseline and no significant changes in (18) F-FLT uptake were observed at any of the doses administered. These effects were corroborated by serial in vivo (18) F-FDG and (18) F-FLT-PET imaging. These data demonstrate that (18) F-FDG-PET can be used as an imaging biomarker to noninvasively evaluate the early effects of PLX3603. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Geve14.pdf:pdfGeve14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>