title: Fetal and infant growth patterns associated with total and abdominal fat distribution in school-age children

## Gishti, Olta and Gaillard, Romy and Manniesing, Rashindra and Abrahamse-Berkeveld, Marieke and van der Beek, Eline M. and Heppe, Denise H.M. and Steegers, Eric A.P. and Hofman, Albert and Duijts, Liesbeth and Durmus, B"usra and Jaddoe, Vincent W.V.
JCLINEM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2013-4345">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Context: Higher infant growth rates are associated with an increased risk of obesity in later life. Objective: We examined the associations of longitudinally measured fetal and infant growth patterns with total and abdominal fat distribution in childhood. Design, Settings and participants: We performed a population-based prospective cohort study among 6,464 children. We measured growth characteristics in second and third trimester of pregnancy, at birth, and at 6, 12, and 24 months. Main Outcomes Measures: Body mass index, fat mass index (body fat mass/height2), lean mass index (body lean mass/height2) and android/gynoid fat ratio measured by Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry, and subcutaneous and preperitoneal abdominal fat measured by ultrasound at the median age of 6.0 years (90% range 5.7 – 7.4). Results: We observed that weight gain in second and third trimester of fetal life, and in early, mid and late infancy were independently and positively associated with childhood body mass index (p-values<0.05). Only infant weight gain was associated with higher fat mass index, android/gynoid fat ratio, and abdominal fat in childhood (p-values<0.05). Children with both fetal and infant growth acceleration had the highest childhood body mass index, fat mass index and subcutaneous abdominal fat, whereas children with fetal growth deceleration and infant growth acceleration had the highest value for android/gynoid fat ratio and the lowest value for lean mass index (p-values<0.05). Conclusions: Both growth in fetal life and infancy affects childhood body mass index, whereas only infant growth affects directly measured total body and abdominal fat. Fetal growth deceleration followed by infant growth acceleration may lead to an adverse body fat distribution in childhood.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Gish14.pdf:pdfGish14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>