title: Calcium at the carotid siphon as an indicator of internal carotid artery stenosis

## Gotovac, Nikola and Išgum, Ivana and Viergever, Max A. and Biessels, Geert J. and Fajdi'c, Josip and Velthuis, Birgitta K. and Prokop, Mathias
ER

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00330-012-2766-x">DOI</a>

## Abstract
OBJECTIVES: Carotid siphon calcification is often visible on unenhanced head CT (UCT), but the relation to proximal carotid artery stenosis (CAS) is unclear. We investigated the association of carotid siphon calcification with the presence of CAS. METHODS: This IRB-waived retrospective study included 160 consecutive patients suspected of stroke (age 64 ± 14 years, 63 female) who underwent head UCT and CTA of the head and neck. CAS was rated on CTA as not present or present with non-significant (<50 %), moderate (50-69 %) or significant (≥70 %) stenosis. Presence, shape (on UCT) and volume (on CTA) of carotid siphon calcifications were related to CAS. RESULTS: Carotid siphon calcification was absent in 41 % of patients and bilateral in 94 % of those with calcifications. Presence, shape and volume of calcification resulted in odds ratios for having significant CAS of 10.1, 3.9 and 8.4, with 95 % CIs of 1.3-79.6, 1.1-14.1 and 2.6-26.8, respectively. Corresponding NPVs were 0.98, 0.98 and 0.96, while PPVs were 0.14, 0.07 and 0.29, respectively. CONCLUSION: Absence of calcification in the carotid artery siphon on UCT has high negative predictive value for carotid artery stenosis in patients with suspected stroke. However, siphon calcification is not a reliable indicator of significant carotid artery stenosis. KEY POINTS: • Many stroke patients do not have calcification in the carotid artery siphon. • Carotid stenosis ≥50 % is unlikely in stroke patients without siphon calcification. • Carotid siphon calcium is a poor indicator of significant carotid artery stenosis.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Goto13.pdf:pdfGoto13.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>