title: Amplitude-based optimal respiratory gating in positron emission tomography in patients with primary lung cancer

## Grootjans, Willem and de Geus-Oei, Lioe-Fee and Meeuwis, Antoi P W. and van der Vos, Charlotte S. and Gotthardt, Martin and Oyen, Wim J G. and Visser, Eric P.
ER

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00330-014-3362-z">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Respiratory motion during PET imaging introduces quantitative and diagnostic inaccuracies, which may result in non-optimal patient management. This study investigated the effects of respiratory gating on image quantification using an amplitude-based optimal respiratory gating (ORG) algorithm.Whole body FDG-PET/CT was performed in 66 lung cancer patients. The respiratory signal was obtained using a pressure sensor integrated in an elastic belt placed around the patient's thorax. ORG images were reconstructed with 50 %, 35 %, and 20 % of acquired PET data (duty cycle). Lesions were grouped into anatomical locations. Differences in lesion volume between ORG and non-gated images, and mean FDG-uptake (SUVmean) were calculated.Lesions in the middle and lower lobes demonstrated a significant SUVmean increase for all duty cycles and volume decrease for duty cycles of 35 % and 20 %. Significant increase in SUVmean and decrease in volume for lesions in the upper lobes were observed for a 20 % duty cycle. The SUVmean increase for central lesions was significant for all duty cycles, whereas a significant volume decrease was observed for a duty cycle of 20 %.This study implies that ORG could influence clinical PET imaging with respect to response monitoring and radiotherapy planning.• Quantifying lesion volume and uptake in PET is important for patient management • Respiratory motion artefacts introduce inaccuracies in quantification of PET images • Amplitude-based optimal respiratory gating maintains image quality through selection of duty cycle • The effect of respiratory gating on lesion quantification depends on anatomical location.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Groo14.pdf:pdfGroo14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>