title: A multicenter randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of small stitches on the incidence of incisional hernia in midline incisions

## Harlaar, Joris J. and Deerenberg, Eva B. and van Ramshorst, Gabrielle H. and Lont, Harold E. and van der Borst, Ed C M H. and Schouten, Willem R. and Heisterkamp, Joos and van Doorn, Helena C. and Cense, Huib A. and Berends, Frits and Stockmann, Hein B A C. and Vrijland, Wietske W. and Consten, Esther C J. and Ottow, Reyer T. and Go, Peter M N Y H. and Hermans, John J. and Steyerberg, Ewout W. and Lange, Johan F.
BMCSUR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2482-11-20">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The median laparotomy is frequently used by abdominal surgeons to gain rapid and wide access to the abdominal cavity with minimal damage to nerves, vascular structures and muscles of the abdominal wall. However, incisional hernia remains the most common complication after median laparotomy, with reported incidences varying between 2-20%. Recent clinical and experimental data showed a continuous suture technique with many small tissue bites in the aponeurosis only, is possibly more effective in the prevention of incisional hernia when compared to the common used large bite technique or mass closure.The STITCH trial is a double-blinded multicenter randomized controlled trial designed to compare a standardized large bite technique with a standardized small bites technique. The main objective is to compare both suture techniques for incidence of incisional hernia after one year. Secondary outcomes will include postoperative complications, direct costs, indirect costs and quality of life. A total of 576 patients will be randomized between a standardized small bites or large bites technique. At least 10 departments of general surgery and two departments of oncological gynaecology will participate in this trial. Both techniques have a standardized amount of stitches per cm wound length and suture length wound length ratio's are calculated in each patient. Follow up will be at 1 month for wound infection and 1 year for incisional hernia. Ultrasound examinations will be performed at both time points to measure the distance between the rectus muscles (at 3 points) and to objectify presence or absence of incisional hernia. Patients, investigators and radiologists will be blinded during follow up, although the surgeon can not be blinded during the surgical procedure.The STITCH trial will provide level 1b evidence to support the preference for either a continuous suture technique with many small tissue bites in the aponeurosis only or for the commonly used large bites technique.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Harl11.pdf:pdfHarl11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>