title: Measurement of head and neck paragangliomas: is volumetric analysis worth the effort?

## Heesterman, Berdine L. and Verbist, Berit M. and van der Mey, Andel G L. and Bayley, Jean-Pierre and Corssmit, Eleonora P M. and Hes, Frederik J. and Jansen, Jeroen C.
Clin Otolaryngol

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/coa.12562">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The aim of the current study was to assess the reproducibility of different measurement methods and define the most workable technique for measuring head and neck paragangliomas, in order to determine the best method for evaluating tumor growth. The evaluation of tumor growth is vital for a 'wait and scan' policy, a management strategy that became increasingly important.Method comparison study.Thirty tumors, including carotid body, vagal body, jugulotympanic tumors, and conglomerates of multiple tumors were measured in duplicate, using linear dimensions, manual area tracing and an automated segmentation method.Reproducibility was assessed using the Bland-Altman method.The smallest detectable difference using the linear dimension method was 11% for carotid body and 27% for vagal body tumors, compared with 17% and 20% for the manual area tracing method. Due to the irregular shape of paragangliomas in the temporal bone and conglomerates, the manual area tracing method showed better results in these tumors (26% and 8 % vs 54% and 47%). The linear dimension method was significantly faster (median 2.19 vs 18.46 minutes, p < 0.001). The automatic segmentation method yielded smallest detectable differences between 39% and 75%, and although fast (2.19 ± 1.49 minutes), it failed technically.Due to a relatively good reproducibility, fast and easy application, we found the linear dimension method to be the most pragmatic approach for evaluation of growth of carotid and vagal body paragangliomas. For jugulotympanic tumors, the preferred method is manual area tracing. However, volumetric changes of these tumors may be of less clinical importance than changes in relation to surrounding anatomical structures. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

