title: Prostate cancer: detection of lymph node metastases outside the routine surgical area with ferumoxtran-10-enhanced MR imaging

## Roel A M Heesakkers and Gerrit J Jager and Anke M H"ovels and Bartjan de Hoop and Harrie C M van den Bosch and Frank Raat and J. Alfred Witjes and Peter F A Mulders and Christina Hulsbergen van der Kaa and Jelle O Barentsz
Radiology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.2512071018">DOI</a>

## Abstract
PURPOSE: To prospectively evaluate the feasibility of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with ferumoxtran-10 in patients with prostate cancer to depict lymph node metastases outside the routine pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND) area. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was approved by the institutional review boards at all four hospitals; patients provided written informed consent. Two hundred ninety-six consecutive men (mean age, 67 years; range, 47-83 years) with prostate cancer and an intermediate-to-high risk for nodal metastases (prostate-specific antigen level >10 ng/mL, Gleason score >6, or stage T3 disease) were enrolled. MR lymphography of the pelvis was performed 24 hours after intravenous drip infusion of ferumoxtran-10. Positive nodes at MR lymphography were indicated to be inside or outside the routine dissection area (RDA). On the basis of MR lymphography computed tomographic (CT)-guided biopsy, routine PLND, or MR imaging-guided minimal extended PLND was performed. RESULTS: MR lymphography findings were positive in 58 patients. Of these, 44 had histopathologic confirmation of lymph node metastases. In 18 of 44 patients (41%), MR lymphography findings showed nodes exclusively outside the RDA, which were confirmed with MR lymphography-guided extended PLND (n = 13) and CT-guided biopsy (n = 5). In another 18 patients (41%), positive nodes were located both inside and outside the RDA at MR lymphography. In these 18 patients, routine PLND was used to confirm the nodes inside the RDA (n = 11); CT-guided biopsy was used to confirm nodes outside the RDA (n = 7). In the remaining eight patients, MR lymphography findings showed only nodes inside the RDA, which was confirmed with PLND (n = 5) and CT-guided biopsy (n = 3). In 14 of the 58 patients (24%), there was no histologic confirmation. CONCLUSION: In 41% of patients with prostate cancer, nodal metastases outside the area of routine PLND were detected by using MR imaging with ferumoxtran-10.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Hees09.pdf:pdf/Hees09.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>