title: 18F-FLT PET during radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is an early predictor of outcome

## Hoeben, Bianca A W. and Troost, Esther G C. and Span, Paul N. and van Herpen, Carla M L. and Bussink, Johan and Oyen, Wim J G. and Kaanders, Johannes H A M.
JNM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.2967/jnumed.112.105999">DOI</a>

## Abstract
This prospective study used sequential PET with the proliferation tracer 3'-deoxy-3'-(18)F-fluorothymidine ((18)F-FLT) to monitor the early response to treatment of head and neck cancer and evaluated the association between PET parameters and clinical outcome.Forty-eight patients with head and neck cancer underwent (18)F-FLT PET/CT before and during the second and fourth weeks of radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. Mean maximum standardized uptake values for the hottest voxel in the tumor and its 8 surrounding voxels in 1 transversal slice (SUVmax(9)) of the PET scans were calculated, as well as PET-segmented gross tumor volumes using visual delineation (GTVVIS) and operator-independent methods based on signal-to-background ratio (GTVSBR) and 50% isocontour of the maximum signal intensity (GTV50%). PET parameters were evaluated for correlations with outcome.(18)F-FLT uptake decreased significantly between consecutive scans. An SUVmax(9) decline ≥ 45% and a GTVVIS decrease ≥ median during the first 2 treatment weeks were associated with better 3-y disease-free survival (88% vs. 63%, P = 0.035, and 91% vs. 65%, P = 0.037, respectively). A GTVVIS decrease ≥ median in the fourth treatment week was also associated with better 3-y locoregional control (100% vs. 68%, P = 0.021). These correlations were most prominent in the subset of patients treated with chemoradiotherapy. Because of low (18)F-FLT uptake levels during treatment, GTVSBR and GTV50% were unsuccessful in segmenting primary tumor volume.In head and neck cancer, a change in (18)F-FLT uptake early during radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy is a strong indicator for long-term outcome. (18)F-FLT PET may thus aid in personalized patient management by steering treatment modifications during an early phase of therapy.

