title: Three-Tesla Magnetic Resonance-Guided Prostate Biopsy in Men With Increased Prostate-Specific Antigen and Repeated, Negative, Random, Systematic, Transrectal Ultrasound Biopsies: Detection of Clinically Significant Prostate Cancers

## Hoeks, C. M. A. and Schouten, M. G. and Bomers, J. G. R. and Hoogendoorn, S. P. and Hulsbergen-van de Kaa, C. A. and Hambrock, T. and Vergunst, H. and Sedelaar, J. P. M. and F"utterer, J. J. and Barentsz, J. O.
EU

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2012.01.047">DOI</a>

## Abstract
BACKGROUND: Patients with elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and one or more previous negative transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) biopsy sessions are subject to diagnostic uncertainty due to TRUS-biopsy undersampling. Magnetic resonance (MR)-guided biopsy (MRGB) has shown high prostate cancer (PCa)-detection rates in studies with limited patient numbers. OBJECTIVE: Determine the detection rate of (clinically significant) PCa for MRGB of cancer-suspicious regions (CSRs) on 3-T multiparametric MR imaging (MP-MRI) in patients with elevated PSA and one or more negative TRUS-biopsy sessions. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Of 844 patients who underwent 3-T MP-MRI in our referral centre between March 2008 and February 2011, 438 consecutive patients with a PSA >4.0 ng/ml and one negative TRUS-biopsy session or more were included. MRGB was performed in 265 patients. Exclusion criteria were existent PCa, endorectal coil use, and MP-MRI for indications other than cancer detection. INTERVENTION: Patients underwent MRGB of MP-MRI CSRs. MEASUREMENTS: (Clinically significant) MRGB cancer-detection rates were determined. Clinically significant cancer was defined by accepted (i.a. Epstein and d'Amico) criteria based on PSA, Gleason score, stage, and tumour volume. Follow-up PSA and histopathology were collected. Sensitivity analysis was performed for patients with MP-MRI CSRs without MRGB. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: In a total of 117 patients, cancer was detected with MRGB (n=108) or after negative MRGB (n=9). PCa was detected in 108 of 438 patients (25%) and in 41% (108 of 265) of MRGB patients. The majority of detected cancers (87%) were clinically significant. Clinically significant cancers were detected in seven of nine (78%) negative MRGB patients in whom PCa was detected during follow-up. Sensitivity analysis resulted in increased cancer detection (47-56%). Complications occurred in 0.2% of patients (5 of 265). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with elevated PSA and one or more negative TRUS-biopsy sessions, MRGB of MP-MRI CSRs had a PCa-detection rate of 41%. The majority of detected cancers were clinically significant (87%).

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Hoek12.pdf:pdfHoek12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>