title: Noninvasive 2-dimensional monitoring of strain in the detrusor muscle in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms using ultrasound strain imaging

## Idzenga, Tim and Farag, Fawzy and Heesakkers, John and Feitz, Wout and de Korte, C. L.
JU

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.juro.2012.09.165">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Pressure flow studies and filling cystometry are currently the standard diagnostic urodynamic tests for lower urinary tract symptoms. A noninvasive ultrasound based method for 2-dimensional monitoring of deformation (or strain) in the detrusor muscle may provide insight into detrusor muscle structural and dynamic properties related to pressure in physiological and disease conditions.In a male patient population with lower urinary tract symptoms, strain in the detrusor muscle (perpendicular to the bladder wall) was estimated based on 2-dimensional radio frequency ultrasound imaging. The estimated strain was correlated to detrusor pressure and urinary flow rate using Spearman's correlation coefficient.Twenty men (mean ± SD age 66 ± 6 years) with lower urinary tract symptoms were included in the study. Ultrasound data acquisition was successful in 13 patients. In 7 patients data acquisition failed due to out-of-plane motion of the bladder wall during voiding or as a result of patient movement during acquisition. The estimated strain correlated positively with detrusor pressure in the 5 patients with an isovolumetric detrusor contraction (Spearman's 0.70-0.99, p <0.05). Of 8 patients with urinary voiding during detrusor muscle contraction this correlation was significantly positive in 5 patients (Spearman's 0.52-0.81, p <0.05).In 13 of 20 patients with lower urinary tract symptoms we demonstrated that strain in the detrusor muscle can be estimated using ultrasound imaging. The estimated strain correlated positively with the detrusor pressure. Optimal results were obtained in the pre-voiding phase, suggesting that ultrasound strain imaging can possibly be used to monitor detrusor muscle activity in real time.

