title: Proton MR spectroscopy of wild-type and creatine kinase deficient mouse skeletal muscle: dipole-dipole coupling effects and post-mortem changes

## in 't Zandt, H. J. and Klomp, D. W. and Oerlemans, F. and Wieringa, B. and Hilbers, C. W. and Heerschap, A.
MRM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1522-2594(200004)43:4<517::AID-MRM5>3.0.CO;2-I">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Localized proton MR spectra of mouse skeletal muscle obtained at 7 T show dipole-dipole coupling effects for creatine and putative taurine resonances and for the lactate methine signal. These effects are independent of the presence of creatine kinase. The intensity of the methylene (1)H resonance of creatine is not different between wild-type and creatine kinase deficient mice, which have a lower phosphocreatine content. (1)H-MR spectra acquired post-mortem from wild-type mouse skeletal muscle parallel to B(0) show a linewidth decrease for the methyl resonance of creatine and a 20% signal intensity loss for its methylene peak concurrent with the total breakdown of phosphocreatine as observed by (31)P-MR spectroscopy. However, with the muscle at the magic angle no changes in the appearance and intensity of creatine (and taurine) resonances are observed. These results indicate that the changes observed for creatine resonances are related to altered dipolar couplings and that the intensity of the methylene peak does not necessarily reflect muscular phosphocreatine content.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send in00.pdf:pdfin00.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>