title: Semiquantitative assessment of cardiovascular disease markers in multislice computed tomography of the chest: interobserver and intraobserver agreements

## Peter C A Jacobs and Mathias Prokop and Ayke L Oen and Yolanda van der Graaf and Diederick E Grobbee and Willem P Th M Mali
JCAT

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/RCT.0b013e3181bbcff6">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To investigate the interobserver and intraobserver agreements for the semiquantitative assessment of markers of subclinical cardiovascular disease as identified by routine care, diagnostic computed tomography (CT) of the chest, to improve the quality of reporting of these incidental findings.Two observers independently evaluated 109 consecutive chest CT scans in routine care, clinical patients from one tertiary referral center. All nongated, contrast-enhanced scans were acquired on a 16-slice CT scanner. Images were scored for the presence of aortic wall abnormalities and calcifications of the coronary artery, the heart valves, the thoracic aorta, and the proximal supraaortic arteries. Furthermore, the presence of left ventricular scarring and elongation of the aorta were recorded. All markers were scored on a semiquantitative scale. Interobserver and intraobserver agreements are presented as weighted kappa and intraclass correlation coefficients.Interobserver and intraobserver agreements for individual markers were good to excellent, with weighted kappa coefficients of 0.54 to 0.89 for interobserver agreement and 0.55 to 0.96 for intraobserver agreement.Semiquantitative assessment of subclinical cardiovascular disease markers in routine care, diagnostic chest CT scans is possible with good to excellent interobserver and intraobserver agreements. Use of these definitions in clinical practice will enable a more standardized assessment and reporting of incidental findings in diagnostic chest CT.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Jaco10c.pdf:pdfJaco10c.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>