title: Two-Step Clustering Technique Can Halve Radiation Dose in CT Brain Perfusion Measurements

## H. W. A. M. de Jong and A. Riordan and J. W. Dankbaar and E. J. Smit and B. K. Velthuis and M. Prokop
RSNA


## Abstract
Purpose: CT perfusion (CTP) has value for managing stroke patients but is associated with high radiation dose. Substantial reduction of mAs can cause unacceptable noise and overestimation of cerebral blood flow (CBF) values. We developed a two-step clustering technique for calculating CBF values to solve this. Method and materials: We acquired CTP data in 10 patients using 30 frames at 80 kVp, 150 mAs (iCT, Philips). From this, half (75) mAs data was simulated. Full and half mAs raw data were processed with a new two-step k-means clustering (100 tissue clusters) approach that only affects the parenchyma. To conserve all tissue information, global voxels with similar dynamic properties are averaged, rather than averaging neighboring voxels as in common filtering. In the first clustering step the vessels are identified to exclude them from the final clustering step. Unprocessed and processed data were converted to CBF maps using Philips Brain perfusion package (4.0) which includes 4D image filtering. Two experienced radiologists graded the data in terms of overall image quality including information on diseased areas. Furthermore, correlation between processed and unprocessed data was determined as well as healthy white matter CBF values using 20 ROIs per patient. Results: Processed (full- and half-mAs) data sets were all graded higher than the unprocessed data sets. Although quality of unprocessed half-mAs data was rated substantially worse than unprocessed full-mAs data, no difference was seen when both sets were processed. White matter CBF values were (average?sd); full mAs 26?43; half mAs 30?57; processed full mAs 21?13; processed half mAs 24?20 [ml/100g/min]. For comparison, published PET normal white matter CBF values are around 20 [ml/100g/min]. Correlation between both processed data sets and unprocessed full mAs data was high (R2=0.90-0.96), while correlation with unprocessed half mAs was substantially lower (R2=0.72-0.78). Conclusion: Halving mAs to save dose in CT brain perfusion leads to bias and clinically unacceptable noise when just image filtering is used. Use of the two step clustering approach allows for significant dose reduction combined with improved image quality and quantitative accuracy. Clinical relevance/application: Two step clustering of CT perfusion data prior to analysis can halve the required mAs or dose while improving image quality and quantitative accuracy.

