title: A single-centre experience of the implementation of adrenal vein sampling procedure: the impact on the diagnostic work-up in primary aldosteronism.

## Kadziela, Jacek and Prejbisz, Aleksander and Michalowska, Ilona and Kolodziejczyk-Kruk, Sylwia and Schultze Kool, Leo and Kabat, Marek and Janaszek-Sitkowska, Hanna and Toutounchi, Sadegh and Galazka, Zbigniew and Ambroziak, Urszula and Bednarczuk, Tomasz and Ptasi?ska-Wnuk, Dorota and Hoffmann, Micha? and Januszewicz, Magdalena and Januszewicz, Andrzej and Witkowski, Adam
Kardiologia polska

<a href="https://doi.org/10.5603/KP.a2016.0166">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Primary aldosteronism is one of the most common causes of secondary hypertension. Adrenal vein sampling (AVS) remains a "gold standard" procedure in differentiation between unilateral (adenoma) and bilateral (hyperplasia) disease. The aim of this study was to present our single-centre experience in establishing and implementating the AVS procedure. All patients had primary aldosteronism confirmed in a salt-infusion test. AVS was performed sequentially during a continuous intravenous infusion of cosyntropin and was preceded by multislice contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) examination of adrenal glands performed a few weeks before AVS in the majority of patients. AVS was regarded as successful if the ratio of each adrenal vein cortisol to inferior vena cava cortisol levels (selectivity index [SI]) was higher than 3.0. In the case of failure, a second attempt was considered in a few weeks. Patients were divided into four groups according to the order of the procedure by quartiles. Between 31 May, 2012 and 5 May, 2016, AVS was performed in 124 patients (69% males, aged 55.3 ± 10.3 years) and was successful in 120 (96.8%) patients. All failed cases were due to the failure of cannulation of the right adrenal vein. The first-attempt success rate was 94.3% (117 of 124 patients) and increased from 83.9% in the first 31 patients to 100% in the last 31 patients. Similarly, the overall success rate increased from 93.5% to 100%. The right SI was significantly higher than the left one (26.4 vs. 11.0, p < 0.0001). Both indices did not differ across quartiles of patients. No complications occurred during the procedure. The AVS procedure, preceded by adrenal CT, may be implemented into daily diagnostic practice safely with an excellent success rate.

