title: Building on Prior Knowledge: Schema-dependent Encoding Processes Relate to Academic Performance

## van Kesteren, Marlieke T R. and Rijpkema, Mark and Ruiter, Dirk J. and Morris, Richard G M. and Fern'andez, Guill'en
JCOGNEUSCI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1162/jocn_a_00630">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The acquisition and retention of conceptual knowledge is more effective in well-structured curricula that provide an optimal conceptual framework for learning new material. However, the neural mechanisms by which pre-existing conceptual schemas facilitate learning are not yet well understood despite their fundamental importance. A pre-existing schema has been shown to enhance memory by influencing the balance between activity within the medial-temporal lobe and the medial pFC during mnemonic processes such as encoding, consolidation, and retrieval. Specifically, correctly encoding and retrieving information that is related to pre-existing schemas appears rather related to medial prefrontal processing, whereas information unrelated or inconsistent with pre-existing schemas rather relates to enhanced medial temporal processing and enhanced interaction between these structures. To further investigate interactions between these regions during conceptual encoding in a real-world university setting, we probed human brain activity and connectivity using fMRI during educationally relevant conceptual encoding carefully embedded within two course programs. Early second-year undergraduate biology and education students were scanned while encoding new facts that were either related or unrelated to the pre-existing conceptual knowledge they had acquired during their first year of study. Subsequently, they were tested on their knowledge of these facts 24 hr later. Memory scores were better for course-related information, and this enhancement was associated with larger medial-prefrontal, but smaller medial-temporal subsequent memory effects. These activity differences went along with decreased functional interactions between these regions. Furthermore, schema-related medial-prefrontal subsequent memory effects measured during this experiment were found to be predictive of second-year course performance. These results, obtained in a real-world university setting, reveal brain mechanisms underlying acquisition of new knowledge that can be integrated into pre-existing conceptual schemas and may indicate how relevant this process is for study success.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Kest14.pdf:pdfKest14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>