title: Automatic segmentation of the wire frame of stent grafts from CT data

## Almar Klein and J. Adam van der Vliet and Luuk J Oostveen and Yvonne Hoogeveen and Leo J Schultze Kool and W. Klaas Jan Renema and Cornelis H Slump
MIA

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.media.2011.05.015">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Endovascular aortic replacement (EVAR) is an established technique, which uses stent grafts to treat aortic aneurysms in patients at risk of aneurysm rupture. Late stent graft failure is a serious complication in endovascular repair of aortic aneurysms. Better understanding of the motion characteristics of stent grafts will be beneficial for designing future devices. In addition, analysis of stent graft movement in individual patients in vivo can be valuable for predicting stent graft failure in these patients. To be able to gather information on stent graft motion in a quick and robust fashion, we propose an automatic method to segment stent grafts from CT data, consisting of three steps: the detection of seed points, finding the connections between these points to produce a graph, and graph processing to obtain the final geometric model in the form of an undirected graph. Using annotated reference data, the method was optimized and its accuracy was evaluated. The experiments were performed using data containing the AneuRx and Zenith stent grafts. The algorithm is robust for noise and small variations in the used parameter values, does not require much memory according to modern standards, and is fast enough to be used in a clinical setting (65 and 30s for the two stent types, respectively). Further, it is shown that the resulting graphs have a 95% (AneuRx) and 92% (Zenith) correspondence with the annotated data. The geometric model produced by the algorithm allows incorporation of high level information and material properties. This enables us to study the in vivo motions and forces that act on the frame of the stent. We believe that such studies will provide new insights into the behavior of the stent graft in vivo, enables the detection and prediction of stent failure in individual patients, and can help in designing better stent grafts in the future.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Klei12.pdf:pdfKlei12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>