title: Lung Volume Reduction Coil Treatment in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients with Homogeneous Emphysema: A Prospective Feasibility Trial

## Karin Klooster and Nick ten Hacken and Ina Franz and Huib Kerstjens and Eva~M. van Rikxoort and Dirk~J. Slebos
Respiration

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1159/000362522">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Background: In patients with heterogeneous emphysema, surgical and bronchoscopic lung volume reduction (LVR) treatments are available. However, for patients with homogeneous emphysema these treatments are hardly investigated and seem less effective. Bronchoscopic LVR coil treatment has been shown to be effective in patients with heterogeneous emphysema, but this treatment has not been exclusively investigated in homogeneous emphysema. Objectives: The aim of this study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of LVR coil treatment in patients with homogeneous emphysema. Methods: In this single-arm, open-label study, patients received a maximum of 12 LVR coils (PneumRx Inc., Mountain View, Calif., USA) in each upper lobe in two sequential procedures. Tests were performed at baseline and at 6 months. The primary endpoint was the improvement from baseline in 6-min walking distance (6MWD) after treatment. Results: Ten patients with severe airway obstruction and hyperinflation were treated. A median of 11 (range 10-12) coils were placed in each lung. Two chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations and one small pneumothorax were recorded as serious adverse events. At 6 months, 6MWD had improved from 289 to 350 m (p = 0.005); forced vital capacity from 2.17 to 2.55 liters (p = 0.047); residual volume from 5.04 to 4.44 liters (p = 0.007) and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire from 63 to 48 points (p = 0.028). Conclusion: LVR coil treatment in homogeneous patients improves hyperinflation, airway resistance, exercise capacity and quality of life with an acceptable safety profile. The benefit of LVR coil treatment is not limited to patients with heterogeneous emphysema, and patients with homogenous emphysema can benefit as well.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Kloo14.pdf:pdfKloo14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>