title: Therapeutic application of CCK2R-targeting PP-F11: influence of particle range, activity and peptide amount

## Konijnenberg, Mark W. and Breeman, Wout A P. and de Blois, Erik and Chan, Ho Sze and Boerman, Otto C. and Laverman, Peter and Kolenc-Peitl, Petra and Melis, Marleen and de Jong, Marion
EJNMMI Res

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1186/s13550-014-0047-1">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Targeted radionuclide therapy with high-energy beta-emitters is generally considered suboptimal to cure small tumours (<300 mg). Tumour targeting of the CCK2 receptor-binding minigastrin analogue PP-F11 was determined in a tumour-bearing mouse model at increasing peptide amounts. The optimal therapy was analysed for PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y, (177)Lu or (213)Bi, accounting for the radionuclide specific activities (SAs), the tumour absorbed doses and tumour (radio) biology.Tumour uptake of (111)In-PP-F11 was determined in nude mice bearing CCK2 receptor-transfected A431 xenografts at 1 and 4 h post-injection for escalating peptide masses of 0.03 to 15 nmol/mouse. The absorbed tumour dose was estimated, assuming comparable biodistributions of the (90)Y, (177)Lu or (213)Bi radiolabelled peptides. The linear-quadratic (LQ) model was used to calculate the tumour control probabilities (TCP) as a function of tumour mass and growth.Practically achievable maximum SAs for PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y and (177)Lu were 400 MBq (90)Y/nmol and 120 MBq(177)Lu/nmol. Both the large elution volume from the 220 MBq (225)Ac generator used and reaction kinetics diminished the maximum achieved (213)Bi SA in practice: 40 MBq (213)Bi/nmol. Tumour uptakes decreased rapidly with increasing peptide amounts, following a logarithmic curve with ED50 = 0.5 nmol. At 0.03 nmol peptide, the (300 mg) tumour dose was 9 Gy after 12 MBq (90)Y-PP-F11, and for (111)In and (177)Lu, this was 1 Gy. A curative dose of 60 Gy could be achieved with a single administration of 111 MBq (90)Y labelled to 0.28 nmol PP-F11 or with 4 × 17 MBq (213)Bi (0.41 nmol) when its α-radiation relative biological effectiveness (RBE) was assumed to be 3.4. Repeated dosing is preferable to avoid complete tumour receptor saturation. Tumours larger than 200 mg are curable with (90)Y-PP-F11; the other radionuclides perform better in smaller tumours. Furthermore, (177)Lu is not optimal for curing fast-growing tumours.Receptor saturation, specific radiopharmaceutical activities and absorbed doses in the tumour together favour therapy with the CCK2 receptor-binding peptide PP-F11 labelled with (90)Y, despite its longer β-particle range in tissue, certainly for tumours larger than 300 mg. The predicted TCPs are of theoretical nature and need to be compared with the outcome of targeted radionuclide experiments.

