title: Phase I clinical and magnetic resonance imaging study of the vascular agent NGR-hTNF in patients with advanced cancers (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Study 16041)

## Hanneke W M van Laarhoven and Walter Fiedler and Ingrid M E Desar and Jack J A van Asten and Sandrine Marr'eaud and Denis Lacombe and Anne-Sophie Govaerts and Jan Bogaerts and Peter Lasch and Johanna N H Timmer-Bonte and Antonio Lambiase and Claudio Bordignon and Cornelis J A Punt and Arend Heerschap and Carla M L van Herpen
CLINCR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-09-1621">DOI</a>

## Abstract
This phase I trial investigating the vascular targeting agent NGR-hTNF aimed to determine the (a) dose-limiting toxicities, (b) maximum tolerated dose (MTD), (c) pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, (d) vascular response by dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI), and (e) preliminary clinical activity in solid tumors.NGR-hTNF was administered once every 3 weeks by a 20- to 60-minute i.v. infusion to cohorts of three to six patients with solid tumors in escalating doses. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses in blood were done during the first four cycles. DCE-MRI was done in cycle 1 at baseline and 2 hours after the start of the infusion.Sixty-nine patients received a total of 201 cycles of NGR-hTNF (0.2-60 microg/m(2)). Rigors and fever were the most frequently observed toxicities. Four dose-limiting toxicities were observed (at doses of 1.3, 8.1, and 60 microg/m(2)), of which three were infusion related. The MTD was 45 microg/m(2). The mean apparent terminal half-life ranged from 0.963 to 2.08 hours. DCE-MRI results of tumors showed a vascular response to NGR-hTNF. No objective responses were observed, but 27 patients showed stable disease with a median duration of 12 weeks.NGR-hTNF was well tolerated. The MTD was 45 microg/m(2) administered in 1 hour once every 3 weeks. DCE-MRI results showed the antivascular effect of NGR-hTNF. These findings call for further research for defining the optimal biological dose and clinical activity of NGR-hTNF as a single agent or in combination with cytotoxic drugs.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Laar10.pdf:pdfLaar10.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>