title: Hypoxia in relation to vasculature and proliferation in liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer

## van Laarhoven, Hanneke W M. and Kaanders, Johannes H A M. and Lok, Jasper and Peeters, Wenny J M. and Rijken, Paul F J W. and Wiering, Bastiaan and Ruers, Theo J M. and Punt, Cornelis J A. and Heerschap, Arend and van der Kogel, Albert J.
IJROBP

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2005.07.982">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To investigate hypoxia measured by pimonidazole binding, glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) and carbonic anhydrase IX (CA-IX) expression, proliferation, and vascularity in liver metastases of colorectal cancer and to compare GLUT1 and CA-IX expression in corresponding primary tumors.Twenty-five patients with liver metastases of colorectal cancer, planned for metastasectomy, were included. The hypoxia marker pimonidazole and proliferation marker iododeoxyuridine were administered before surgery. After immunofluorescent staining of the frozen metastases, pimonidazole binding, vascularity, and proliferation were analyzed quantitatively. Thirteen paraffin-embedded primary tumors were stained immunohistochemically for GLUT1 and CA-IX expression, which was analyzed semiquantitatively in primary tumors and corresponding liver metastases.In liver metastases, pimonidazole binding showed a pattern consistent with diffusion-limited hypoxia. The mean pimonidazole-positive fraction was 0.146; the mean distance from vessels to pimonidazole-positive areas was 80 microm. When expressed, often co-localization was observed between pimonidazole binding and GLUT1 or CA-IX expression, but microregional areas of mismatch were also observed. No correlation between the level of pimonidazole binding and GLUT1 or CA-IX expression was observed. In some patients, a large fraction (up to 30%) of proliferating cells was present in pimonidazole-stained areas. Expression of CA-IX in primary tumors and metastases showed a significant correlation, which was absent for GLUT1 expression.Compared with other tumor types, liver metastases of colorectal cancer contain large amounts of hypoxic cells. The lack of correlation with pimonidazole binding brings into question the value of GLUT1 and CA-IX as endogenous markers of hypoxia.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Laar06b.pdf:pdfLaar06b.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>