title: A Multiparametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging Based Risk Model to Determine the Risk of Significant Prostate Cancer prior to biopsy.

## van Leeuwen, Pim J and Hayen, Andrew and Thompson, James E and Moses, Daniel and Shnier, Ron and Böhm, Maret and Abuodha, Magdaline and Haynes, Anne-Maree and Ting, Francis and Barentsz, Jelle and Roobol, Monique and Vass, Justin and Rasiah, Krishan and Delprado, Warick and Stricker, Phillip D
BJU international

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/bju.13814">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To develop and externally validate a predictive model for detection of significant prostate cancer (PC). Development of the model was based on prospective cohort including 393 men who underwent mpMRI prior to biopsy. External validity of the model was then examined retrospectively in 198 men from a separate institution whom underwent a mpMRI followed by biopsy for abnormal PSA/DRE. A model was developed with age, PSA, DRE, prostate volume, previous biopsy and PIRADS score as predictors for significant PC (Gleason 7 with >5% grade 4, ? 20% cores positive or ? 7mm of PC in any core). Probability was studied via logistic regression. Discriminatory performance was quantified by concordance statistics and internally validated with bootstrap resampling. 393 men had complete data. A total of 149 patients (37.9%) had significant PC. While the variable model had good accuracy in predicting significant PC (AUC of 0.80), the advanced model (incorporating mpMRI) had significant higher AUC of 0.88 (p<0.001). The model was well calibrated in internal and external validation. Decision analysis demonstrating that use of the advanced model in practice would improve biopsy-outcome predictions. Clinical application of the model would reduce 28% of biopsies whilst missing 2.6% significant PC. Individualized risk assessment of significant PC using a predictive model that incorporates mpMRI PIRADS score and clinical data may allow a considerable reduction in unnecessary biopsies and reduction of the risk of over-detection of insignificant PC at the cost of a very small increase in the number of significant cancers missed. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

