title: Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus: lessons learned from magnetic resonance imaging

## Luyendijk, J. and Steens, S C A. and Ouwendijk, W J N. and Steup-Beekman, G. M. and Bollen, E L E M. and van der Grond, J. and Huizinga, T W J. and Emmer, B. J. and van Buchem, M. A.
ARTR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/art.30157">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The clinical manifestations of nervous system involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus (neuropsychiatric SLE [NPSLE]) are highly diverse, and their etiology is incompletely understood. The aim of this study was to provide an inventory of abnormalities on conventional brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in NPSLE and to interpret the findings in relation to possible underlying pathogenetic mechanisms. MR images of the first episode of active NPSLE in 74 patients were retrospectively reviewed. All patients fulfilled the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 1982 revised criteria for the classification of SLE and were classified according to the 1999 ACR case definitions for NPSLE syndromes. We excluded patients with a history of brain disease and patients in whom other mechanisms unrelated to SLE caused the neuropsychiatric symptoms.The principal findings were: 1) focal hyperintensities in white matter (WM) (49% of all patients) or both WM and gray matter (GM) (5% of all patients), suggestive of vasculopathy or vasculitis; 2) more widespread, confluent hyperintensities in the WM, suggestive of chronic hypoperfusion due to the same mechanisms; 3) diffuse cortical GM lesions (12% of all patients), compatible with an immune response to neuronal components or postseizure changes; and 4) absence of MRI abnormalities, despite signs and symptoms of active disease (42% of all patients).Several distinct brain MRI patterns were observed in patients with active NPSLE, suggestive of different pathogenetic mechanisms. To advance our understanding of the various processes leading to NPSLE, the radiographic manifestations may be a good starting point and useful for categorization of patients in further research.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Luye11.pdf:pdfLuye11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>