title: Dose-response effect of Gelofusine on renal uptake and retention of radiolabelled octreotate in rats with CA20948 tumours

## Melis, Marleen and Bijster, Magda and de Visser, Monique and Konijnenberg, Mark W. and de Swart, Jan and Rolleman, Edgar J. and Boerman, Otto C. and Krenning, Eric P. and de Jong, Marion
EJNMMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00259-009-1196-8">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy using β-emitting radiolabelled somatostatin analogues like DOTA,Tyr3-octreotate shows beneficial results in patients suffering from somatostatin receptor overexpressing tumours. However, after high-dose therapy partial renal reabsorption of radiopeptides may lead to nephrotoxicity. Co-infusion of lysine/arginine lowers renal retention of these radiopeptides without affecting tumour uptake. Recently co-administration of Gelofusine has been described to have a comparable kidney-protecting effect in rats. In the present study optimal dosing of Gelofusine co-administration was studied in tumour-bearing rats.Doses of 40, 80, 120 or 160 mg/kg Gelofusine were co-injected with 15 µg DOTA,Tyr3-octreotate, labelled with 3 MBq 111In for biodistribution (24 h post-injection, n = 4 per group) and with 60 MBq 111In for microSPECT imaging experiments at 3, 24 and 48 h post-injection. An additional group of rats received 80 mg/kg Gelofusine plus 400 mg/kg lysine co-injection. Biodistribution studies were performed both in older (475 g) and younger (300 g) rats, the latter bearing CA20948 tumours.Co-injection of 40 mg/kg Gelofusine resulted in 40-50% reduction of renal uptake and retention of 111In-DOTA,Tyr3-octreotate, whereas higher doses further increased the reduction to 50-60% in both groups of rats. Combining Gelofusine and lysine caused 70% reduction of renal uptake. The uptake of radiolabelled octreotate both in somatostatin receptor-expressing normal tissues and tumours was not affected by Gelofusine co-injection.In rats co-injection of 80 mg/kg Gelofusine resulted in maximum reduction of renal retention of 111In-DOTA,Tyr3-octreotate, which was further improved when combined with lysine. Tumour uptake of radiolabelled octreotate was not affected, resulting in an increased tumour to kidney ratio.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfMeli09.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>