title: 64Cu- and 68Ga-labelled [Nle(14),Lys(40)(Ahx-NODAGA)NH2]-exendin-4 for pancreatic beta cell imaging in rats

## Mikkola, Kirsi and Kirsi, Mikkola and Yim, Cheng-Bin and Cheng-Bin, Yim and Fagerholm, Veronica and Veronica, Fagerholm and Ishizu, Tamiko and Tamiko, Ishizu and Elomaa, Viki-Veikko and Viki-Veikko, Elomaa and Rajander, Johan and Johan, Rajander and Jurttila, Jori and Jori, Jurttila and Saanijoki, Tiina and Tiina, Saanijoki and Tolvanen, Tuula and Tuula, Tolvanen and Tirri, Marko and Marko, Tirri and Gourni, Eleni and Eleni, Gourni and B'eh'e, Martin and Martin, B'eh'e and Gotthardt, Martin and Martin, Gotthardt and Reubi, Jean Claude and Claude, Reubi Jean and M"acke, Helmut and Helmut, M"acke and Roivainen, Anne and Anne, Roivainen and Solin, Olof and Olof, Solin and Nuutila, Pirjo and Pirjo, Nuutila
MOLIB

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s11307-013-0691-2">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) is a molecular target for imaging of pancreatic beta cells. We compared the ability of [Nle(14),Lys(40)(Ahx-NODAGA-(64)Cu)NH2]-exendin-4 ([(64)Cu]NODAGA-exendin-4) and [Nle(14),Lys(40)(Ahx-NODAGA-(68)Ga)NH2]-exendin-4 ([(68)Ga]NODAGA-exendin-4) to detect native pancreatic islets in rodents.The stability, lipophilicity and affinity of the radiotracers to the GLP-1R were determined in vitro. The biodistribution of the tracers was assessed using autoradiography, ex vivo biodistribution and PET imaging. Estimates for human radiation dosimetry were calculated.We found GLP-1R-specific labelling of pancreatic islets. However, the pancreas could not be visualised in PET images. The highest uptake of the tracers was observed in the kidneys. Effective dose estimates for [(64)Cu]NODAGA-exendin-4 and [(68)Ga]NODAGA-exendin-4 were 0.144 and 0.012 mSv/MBq, respectively.[(64)Cu]NODAGA-exendin-4 might be more effective for labelling islets than [(68)Ga]NODAGA-exendin-4. This is probably due to the lower specific radioactivity of [(68)Ga]NODAGA-exendin-4 compared to [(64)Cu]NODAGA-exendin-4. The radiation dose in the kidneys may limit the use of [(64)Cu]NODAGA-exendin-4 as a clinical tracer.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Mikk14.pdf:pdfMikk14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>