title: Evaluation of Registration Methods on Thoracic CT: The EMPIRE10 Challenge

## K. Murphy and B. van Ginneken and J. M. Reinhardt and S. Kabus and K. Ding and X. Deng and K. Cao and K. Du and G. E. Christensen and V. Garcia and T. Vercauteren and N. Ayache and O. Commowick and G. Malandain and B. Glocker and N. Paragios and N. Navab and V. Gorbunova and J. Sporring and M. de Bruijne and X. Han and M. P. Heinrich and J. A. Schnabel and M. Jenkinson and C. Lorenz and M. Modat and J. R. McClelland and S. Ourselin and S. E. A. Muenzing and M. A. Viergever and D. De Nigris and D. L. Collins and T. Arbel and M. Peroni and R. Li and G. C. Sharp and A. Schmidt-Richberg and J. Ehrhardt and R. Werner and D. Smeets and D. Loeckx and G. Song and N. Tustison and B. Avants and J. C. Gee and M. Staring and S. Klein and B. C. Stoel and M. Urschler and M. Werlberger and J. Vandemeulebroucke and S. Rit and D. Sarrut and J. P. W. Pluim
TMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1109/TMI.2011.2158349">DOI</a>

## Abstract
EMPIRE10 (Evaluation of Methods for Pulmonary Image REgistration 2010) is a public platform for fair and meaningful comparison of registration algorithms which are applied to a database of intra-patient thoracic CT image pairs. Evaluation of non-rigid registration techniques is a non trivial task. This is compounded by the fact that researchers typically test only on their own data, which varies widely. For this reason, reliable assessment and comparison of different registration algorithms has been virtually impossible in the past. In this work we present the results of the launch phase of EMPIRE10, which comprised the comprehensive evaluation and comparison of 20 individual algorithms from leading academic and industrial research groups. All algorithms are applied to the same set of 30 thoracic CT pairs. Algorithm settings and parameters are chosen by researchers expert in the configuration of their own method and the evaluation is independent, using the same criteria for all participants. All results are published on the EMPIRE10 website (http://empire10.isi.uu.nl). The challenge remains ongoing and open to new participants. Full results from 24 algorithms have been published at the time of writing. This article details the organisation of the challenge, the data and evaluation methods and the outcome of the initial launch with 20 algorithms. The gain in knowledge and future work are discussed.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Murp11a.pdf:pdfMurp11a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>