title: Phase 2 Study of Lutetium 177-Labeled Anti-Carbonic Anhydrase IX Monoclonal Antibody Girentuximab in Patients with Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma.

## Muselaers, Constantijn H J and Boers-Sonderen, Marye J and van Oostenbrugge, Tim J and Boerman, Otto C and Desar, Ingrid M E and Stillebroer, Alexander B and Mulder, Sasja F and van Herpen, Carla M L and Langenhuijsen, Johan F and Oosterwijk, Egbert and Oyen, Wim J G and Mulders, Peter F A
European urology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2015.11.033">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Despite advances in the treatment of metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), there is still an unmet need in the treatment of this disease. A phase 2 radioimmunotherapy (RIT) trial with lutetium 177 ((177)Lu)-girentuximab was initiated to evaluate the efficacy of this approach. In this nonrandomized single-arm trial, patients with progressive metastatic ccRCC who met the inclusion criteria received 2405 MBq/m(2) of (177)Lu-girentuximab intravenously. In the absence of persistent toxicity and progressive disease, patients were eligible for retreatment after 3 mo with 75% of the previous activity dose. A total of 14 patients were included. After the first therapeutic infusion, eight patients (57%) had stable disease (SD) and one (7%) had a partial regression. The treatment was generally well tolerated but resulted in grade 3-4 myelotoxicity in most patients. After the second cycle, continued SD was observed in five of six patients, but none were eligible for retreatment due to prolonged thrombocytopenia. In conclusion, RIT with (177)Lu-girentuximab resulted in disease stabilization in 9 of 14 patients with progressive metastatic ccRCC, but myelotoxicity prevented retreatment in some patients. We investigated the efficacy of lutetium 177-girentuximab radioimmunotherapy in patients with metastatic kidney cancer. The treatment resulted in disease stabilization in 9 of 14 patients. The main toxicity was prolonged low blood cell counts. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02002312 (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02002312).

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Muse16.pdf:pdfMuse16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>