title: Sustained ERK inhibition maximizes responses of BrafV600E thyroid cancers to radioiodine.

## Nagarajah, James and Le, Mina and Knauf, Jeffrey A and Ferrandino, Giuseppe and Montero-Conde, Cristina and Pillarsetty, Nagavarakishore and Bolaender, Alexander and Irwin, Christopher and Krishnamoorthy, Gnana Prakasam and Saqcena, Mahesh and Larson, Steven M and Ho, Alan L and Seshan, Venkatraman and Ishii, Nobuya and Carrasco, Nancy and Rosen, Neal and Weber, Wolfgang A and Fagin, James A
The Journal of clinical investigation

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1172/JCI89067">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Radioiodide (RAI) therapy of thyroid cancer exploits the relatively selective ability of thyroid cells to transport and accumulate iodide. Iodide uptake requires expression of critical genes that are involved in various steps of thyroid hormone biosynthesis. ERK signaling, which is markedly increased in thyroid cancer cells driven by oncogenic BRAF, represses the genetic program that enables iodide transport. Here, we determined that a critical threshold for inhibition of MAPK signaling is required to optimally restore expression of thyroid differentiation genes in thyroid cells and in mice with BrafV600E-induced thyroid cancer. Although the MEK inhibitor selumetinib transiently inhibited ERK signaling, which subsequently rebounded, the MEK inhibitor CKI suppressed ERK signaling in a sustained manner by preventing RAF reactivation. A small increase in ERK inhibition markedly increased the expression of thyroid differentiation genes, increased iodide accumulation in cancer cells, and thereby improved responses to RAI therapy. Only a short exposure to the drug was necessary to obtain a maximal response to RAI. These data suggest that potent inhibition of ERK signaling is required to adequately induce iodide uptake and indicate that this is a promising strategy for the treatment of BRAF-mutant thyroid cancer.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Naga16.pdf:pdfNaga16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>