title: (213)Bi-Labeled Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen-Targeting Agents Induce DNA Double-Strand Breaks in Prostate Cancer Xenografts.

## Nonnekens, Julie and Chatalic, Kristell L S and Molkenboer-Kuenen, Janneke D M and Beerens, Cecile E M T and Bruchertseifer, Frank and Morgenstern, Alfred and Veldhoven-Zweistra, Joke and Schottelius, Margret and Wester, Hans-Jürgen and van Gent, Dik C and van Weerden, Wytske M and Boerman, Otto C and de Jong, Marion and Heskamp, Sandra
Cancer biotherapy & radiopharmaceuticals

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1089/cbr.2016.2155">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Up to now, prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-targeted radionuclide therapy mainly focused on ?-emitting radionuclides. Herein, two new (213)Bi-labeled agents for PSMA-targeted ? therapy of prostate cancer (PCa) are reported. The biodistribution of (213)Bi-labeled small-molecule inhibitor PSMA I&T and nanobody JVZ-008 was evaluated in mice bearing PSMA-positive LNCaP xenografts. DNA damage response was followed using LNCaP cells and LNCaP xenografts. In vitro, (213)Bi-PSMA I&T and (213)Bi-JVZ-008 therapy of LNCaP cells led to increased number of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), detected as 53BP1 and ?H2AX nuclear foci. In vivo, tumor uptake of (213)Bi-PSMA I&T and (213)Bi-JVZ-008 was 5.75%?±?2.70%ID/g (injected dose per gram) and 2.68%?±?0.56%ID/g, respectively, with similar tumor-to-kidney ratios. Furthermore, both agents induced in vivo DSBs in the tumors, which were detected between 1 hour and 24 hours after injection. (213)Bi-PSMA I&T induced significantly more DSBs than (213)Bi-JVZ-008 (p?<?0.01). (213)Bi-PSMA I&T and (213)Bi-JVZ-008 showed efficient and rapid tumor targeting and produced DSBs in PSMA-expressing LNCaP cells and xenografts. These promising results require further evaluation of (213)Bi-labeled agents with regard to their therapeutic efficacy and toxicity for PCa therapy.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Nonn17.pdf:pdfNonn17.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>