title: Undiagnosed breast cancer at MR imaging: analysis of causes

## Pages, Emmanuelle Bouic and Millet, Ingrid and Hoa, Denis and Doyon, Fernanda Curros and Taourel, Patrice
Radiology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.12111917">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To retrospectively review the causes of false-negative results on prior magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies in patients who developed breast cancer as revealed on a follow-up MR imaging study and to determine the presumptive causes of these false-negative findings.Fifty-eight pairs of MR imaging studies from one institution were assessed, consisting of a prior study without a diagnosis of cancer and a diagnostic study with subsequent findings of 60 cancers in 58 women at MR imaging (mean interval between prior and diagnostic MR examinations, 13.8 months). Two radiologists reviewed in consensus, in a nonblinded fashion, each pair of MR studies, comparing the diagnostic and the prior MR imaging studies to evaluate the rate of false-negative findings. The prospective reports were then analyzed to classify false-negatives findings in breast enhancement of breast cancers not identified at the time of imaging, potentially misinterpreted, and mismanaged. False-negative results on prior MR studies were retrospectively reassessed to identify possibly reasons why cancers had been not recognized, potentially misinterpreted, or mismanaged.Twenty-eight (47% [95% confidence interval CI: 34%, 59%]) of the 60 cancers were retrospectively diagnosed as Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System grade 3, 4, or 5 lesions. Analysis of the prospective reports showed that six lesions (10% [95% CI: 2%, 18%]) had been not identified at the time of diagnosis, 15 lesions (25% [95% CI: 14%, 36%]) were potentially misinterpreted, and seven lesions (12% [95% CI: 3%, 20%]) were mismanaged. The main causes of misinterpretation were smooth margins of a mass (n=4), stability in size (n=3), and location of a nonmass in a postsurgical area (n=5). Mismanagement was mainly due to inadequate correlations between MR imaging and ultrasonographic (US) features, with inaccurate sampling with US guidance in five cases.In patients with breast cancer seen at MR imaging, retrospective evaluation of the prior MR imaging studies showed potential observer error in 47% of cases, resulting more from misinterpretation than from nonrecognition or mismanagement of cancers.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Page12.pdf:pdfPage12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>