title: Tubular reabsorption and local production of urine hepcidin-25

## Peters, Hilde P E. and Laarakkers, Coby M M. and Pickkers, Peter and Masereeuw, Rosalinde and Boerman, Otto C. and Eek, Annemarie and Cornelissen, Elisabeth A M. and Swinkels, Dorine W. and Wetzels, Jack F M.
BMC Nephrol

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2369-14-70">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Hepcidin is a central regulator of iron metabolism. Serum hepcidin levels are increased in patients with renal insufficiency, which may contribute to anemia. Urine hepcidin was found to be increased in some patients after cardiac surgery, and these patients were less likely to develop acute kidney injury. It has been suggested that urine hepcidin may protect by attenuating heme-mediated injury, but processes involved in urine hepcidin excretion are unknown.To assess the role of tubular reabsorption we compared fractional excretion (FE) of hepcidin-25 with FE of β2-microglobulin (β(2)m) in 30 patients with various degrees of tubular impairment due to chronic renal disease. To prove that hepcidin is reabsorbed by the tubules in a megalin-dependent manner, we measured urine hepcidin-1 in wild-type and kidney specific megalin-deficient mice. Lastly, we evaluated FE of hepcidin-25 and β(2)m in 19 patients who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Hepcidin was measured by a mass spectrometry assay (MS), whereas β(2)m was measured by ELISA.In patients with chronic renal disease, FE of hepcidin-25 was strongly correlated with FE of β(2)m (r = 0.93, P <0.01). In megalin-deficient mice, urine hepcidin-1 was 7-fold increased compared to wild-type mice (p < 0.01) indicating that proximal tubular reabsorption occurs in a megalin- dependent manner. Following cardiac surgery, FE of hepcidin-25 increased despite a decline in FE of β(2)m, potentially indicating local production at 12-24 hours.Hepcidin-25 is reabsorbed by the renal tubules and increased urine hepcidin-25 levels may reflect a reduction in tubular uptake. Uncoupling of FE of hepcidin-25 and β(2)m in cardiac surgery patients suggests local production.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Pete13b.pdf:pdf/Pete13b.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>