title: Population plasma pharmacokinetics of 11C-flumazenil at tracer concentrations

## van Rij, Catharina M. and Huitema, Alwin D R. and Swart, Eleonora L. and Greuter, Henricus N J M. and Lammertsma, Adriaan A. and van Loenen, Arie C. and Franssen, Eric J F.
Br J Clin Pharmacol

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2125.2005.02487.x">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The objectives of the study were to develop a population pharmacokinetic model for (11)C-flumazenil at tracer concentrations, to assess the effects of patient-related covariates and to derive an optimal sampling protocol for clinical use.A population pharmacokinetic model was developed using nonlinear mixed effects modelling (NONMEM) with data obtained from 51 patients with either depression or epilepsy. Each patient received approximately 370 MBq (1-4 microg) of (11)C-flumazenil. The effects of selected covariates (gender, weight, type of disease and age) were investigated. The model was validated using a bootstrap method. Finally, an optimal sampling design was established.The population pharmacokinetics of tracer quantities of (11)C-flumazenil were best described by a two compartment model. Type of disease and weight were identified as significant covariates (P < 0.002). Mean population pharmacokinetic parameters (percent coefficient of variation) were: CL 1530 mL min(-1) (6.6%), V(1) 24.8 x 10(3) mL (3.8%), V(2) 27.3 x 10(3) mL (5.4%), and Q 2510 mL min(-1) (6.5%). CL was 20% lower in patients with epilepsy, and the influence of weight on V(1) was 0.55% kg(-1). For the prediction of the AUC, a combination of two time points at t = 30 and 60 min post injection was considered optimal (bias -0.7% (95% CI -2.2 to 0.8%), precision 5.7% (95% CI 4.5-6.9%)). The optimal sampling strategy was cross-validated (observed AUC = 296 MBql(-1) min(-1) (95% CI 102-490), predicted AUC = 288 MBql(-1) min(-1) (95% CI 70-506)).The population pharmacokinetics of tracer quantities of (11)C-flumazenil are well described by a two-compartment model. Inclusion of weight and type of disease as covariates significantly improved the model. Furthermore, an optimal sampling procedure may increase the feasibility and applicability of (11)C-flumazenil PET.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Rij05a.pdf:pdfRij05a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>