title: Noninvasive assessment of the functional neovasculature in 9L-glioma growing in rat brain by dynamic 1H magnetic resonance imaging of gadolinium uptake

## van der Sanden, B. P. and Rozijn, T. H. and Rijken, P. F. and Peters, H. P. and Heerschap, A. and van der Kogel, A. J. and Bov'ee, W. M.
JCBFM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/00004647-200005000-00013">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Pathophysiologic parameters of the functional neovasculature and the blood-brain barrier of 9L-glioma in rat brain were measured noninvasively by dynamic 1H magnetic resonance imaging studies of gadolinium (Gd)-DTPA uptake. Changes of apparent [Gd-DTPA] uptake in time (CT[t]) were analyzed in a slice through the center of 10 9L-gliomas using fast T1 measurements. The distribution of the contrast agent was spatially correlated with the distribution of perfused microvessels as determined by immunohistochemical analysis. This method permits a distinction between perfused and nonperfused microvessels with a disrupted blood-brain barrier. In transverse slices of the whole tumor, a spatial correlation was observed between CT maps and the two-dimensional distribution of perfused microvessels. In the next step, Gd-DTPA uptake rates were spatially related to the perfused microvessel density (Np) or vascular surface area (Sp). In tumor voxels with perfused microvessels, a linear correlation was found between Gd-DTPA uptake rate constants (k values) and Np or Sp. No correlation was observed between k values and the total microvessel density. These are the first data that show a relation between Gd-DTPA uptake rates and parameters of the functional neovasculature in 9L-glioma growing in rat brain. Now that Gd-DTPA uptake studies can be related to parameters of the functional neovasculature, they may be used more efficiently as a prognostic tool before or during therapy.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Sand00.pdf:pdfSand00.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>