title: Global HDO uptake in human glioma xenografts is related to the perfused capillary distribution

## van der Sanden, B. P. and in't Zandt, H. J. and Hoofd, L. and de Graaf, R. A. and Nicolay, K. and Rijken, P. F. and van der Kogel, A. J. and Heerschap, A.
MRM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1522-2594(199909)42:3<479::AID-MRM10>3.0.CO;2-H">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The aim of this study is to evaluate the existence of a possible relationship between global deuterium-labeled water (HDO) uptake rates and the diffusion geometry of human glioma xenografts in nude mice. HDO diffusion times in the whole extravascular tumor volume were estimated by combining quantitative (1)H-MR diffusion imaging and morphometric analysis of intercapillary distances in two tumor lines with a different perfused vascular architecture. HDO uptake was measured independently using (2)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Time constants of HDO-uptake curves (tau) were compared to estimations of maximum HDO diffusion times (t(difmax)). Tumors with a homogeneously perfused capillary distribution showed a mono-exponential HDO uptake. The t(difmax) was comparable to tau values of HDO uptake curves: t(difmax) varied between 74 and 368 sec and the range of tau values was 115-370 sec. Heterogeneously perfused tumors had a bi-exponential HDO uptake with t(difmax) in between the tau values of the fast and slow uptake phase. These findings indicate that the global HDO uptake is related to the perfused capillary distribution in human glioma xenografts. That HDO uptake rates indeed can depend on the perfused capillary distribution was substantiated in experiments with two-dimensional (2D) models. In these models with a diffusion-limited HDO uptake, HDO uptake curves could be approximated by curves derived from 2D HDO diffusion simulations. Magn Reson Med 42:479-489, 1999.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Sand99.pdf:pdfSand99.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>