title: Position paper on screening for breast cancer by the European Society of Breast Imaging (EUSOBI) and 30 national breast radiology bodies from Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Israel, Lithuania, Moldova, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Turkey.

## Sardanelli, Francesco and Aase, Hildegunn S and Álvarez, Marina and Azavedo, Edward and Baarslag, Henk J and Balleyguier, Corinne and Baltzer, Pascal A and Beslagic, Vanesa and Bick, Ulrich and Bogdanovic-Stojanovic, Dragana and Briediene, Ruta and Brkljacic, Boris and Camps Herrero, Julia and Colin, Catherine and Cornford, Eleanor and Danes, Jan and de Geer, Gérard and Esen, Gul and Evans, Andrew and Fuchsjaeger, Michael H and Gilbert, Fiona J and Graf, Oswald and Hargaden, Gormlaith and Helbich, Thomas H and Heywang-Köbrunner, Sylvia H and Ivanov, Valentin and Jónsson, Ásbjörn and Kuhl, Christiane K and Lisencu, Eugenia C and Luczynska, Elzbieta and Mann, Ritse M and Marques, Jose C and Martincich, Laura and Mortier, Margarete and Müller-Schimpfle, Markus and Ormandi, Katalin and Panizza, Pietro and Pediconi, Federica and Pijnappel, Ruud M and Pinker, Katja and Rissanen, Tarja and Rotaru, Natalia and Saguatti, Gianni and Sella, Tamar and Slobodníková, Jana and Talk, Maret and Taourel, Patrice and Trimboli, Rubina M and Vejborg, Ilse and Vourtsis, Athina and Forrai, Gabor
European radiology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00330-016-4612-z">DOI</a>

## Abstract
EUSOBI and 30 national breast radiology bodies support mammography for population-based screening, demonstrated to reduce breast cancer (BC) mortality and treatment impact. According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, the reduction in mortality is 40 % for women aged 50-69 years taking up the invitation while the probability of false-positive needle biopsy is <1 % per round and overdiagnosis is only 1-10 % for a 20-year screening. Mortality reduction was also observed for the age groups 40-49 years and 70-74 years, although with "limited evidence". Thus, we firstly recommend biennial screening mammography for average-risk women aged 50-69 years; extension up to 73 or 75 years, biennially, is a second priority, from 40-45 to 49 years, annually, a third priority. Screening with thermography or other optical tools as alternatives to mammography is discouraged. Preference should be given to population screening programmes on a territorial basis, with double reading. Adoption of digital mammography (not film-screen or phosphor-plate computer radiography) is a priority, which also improves sensitivity in dense breasts. Radiologists qualified as screening readers should be involved in programmes. Digital breast tomosynthesis is also set to become "routine mammography" in the screening setting in the next future. Dedicated pathways for high-risk women offering breast MRI according to national or international guidelines and recommendations are encouraged. • EUSOBI and 30 national breast radiology bodies support screening mammography. • A first priority is double-reading biennial mammography for women aged 50-69 years. • Extension to 73-75 and from 40-45 to 49 years is also encouraged. • Digital mammography (not film-screen or computer radiography) should be used. • DBT is set to become "routine mammography" in the screening setting in the next future.

