title: Intravascular palpography for high-risk vulnerable plaque assessment

## Schaar, Johannes A. and de Korte, Chris L. and Mastik, Frits and Baldewsing, Radj and Regar, Evelyn and de Feyter, Pim and Slager, Cornelis J. and van der Steen, Anton F W. and Serruys, Patrick W.
Herz

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00059-003-2488-6">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The composition of an atherosclerotic plaque is considered more important than the degree of stenosis. An unstable lesion may rupture and cause an acute thrombotic reaction. Most of these lesions contain a large lipid pool covered by an inflamed thin fibrous cap. The stress in the cap increases with decreasing cap thickness and increasing macrophage infiltration. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) palpography might be an ideal technique to assess the mechanical properties of high-risk plaques.Palpography assesses the local mechanical properties of tissue using its deformation caused by the intraluminal pressure. IN VITRO VALIDATION: The technique was validated in vitro using diseased human coronary and femoral arteries. Especially between fibrous and fatty tissue, a highly significant difference in strain (p = 0.0012) was found. Additionally, the predictive value to identify the vulnerable plaque was investigated. A high-strain region at the lumen-vessel wall boundary has an 88% sensitivity and 89% specificity for identifying such plaques. IN VIVO VALIDATION: In vivo, the technique was validated in an atherosclerotic Yucatan minipig animal model. This study also revealed higher strain values in fatty than fibrous plaques (p < 0.001). The presence of a high-strain region at the lumenplaque interface has a high predictive value to identify macrophages. PATIENT STUDIES: Patient studies revealed high-strain values (1-2%) in thin-cap fibrous atheroma. Calcified material showed low strain values (0-0.2%). With the development of three-dimensional (3-D) palpography, identification of highstrain spots over the full length of a coronary artery becomes available.Intravascular palpography is a unique tool to assess lesion composition and vulnerability. The development of 3-D palpography provides a technique that may develop into a clinical tool to identify the high-risk plaque.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Scha03a.pdf:pdfScha03a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>