title: Added value of hybrid myocardial perfusion SPECT and CT coronary angiography in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease.

## Schaap, Jeroen and de Groot, Joris A H and Nieman, Koen and Meijboom, W Bob and Boekholdt, S Matthijs and Kauling, Robert M and Post, Martijn C and Van der Heyden, Jan A and de Kroon, Thom L and Rensing, Benno J W M and Moons, Karel G M and Verzijlbergen, J Fred
European heart journal cardiovascular Imaging

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/ehjci/jeu135">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Hybrid single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) has only been evaluated for its diagnostic accuracy as a single test in patients suspected of significant coronary artery disease (CAD). Added value of hybrid SPECT/CCTA beyond usual clinical work-up, or use of each of these tests separately, remains unclear. We evaluated the added value of hybrid myocardial perfusion SPECT (SPECT) and CCTA, beyond pre-test likelihood and exercise stress ECG (X-ECG), in the diagnosis of CAD. Two hundred and five patients with stable angina pectoris and intermediate-to-high pre-test likelihood were prospectively included. All patients underwent clinical history and examination, X-ECG, stress and rest SPECT, coronary calcium scoring (CCS) and CCTA. Fractional flow reserve measurement <0.80 or a lesion >50% on coronary angiography (CA) served as reference standard for significant CAD. Multiple imputation was used to correct for missing test results (17-20%). Added value of hybrid SPECT/CCTA to the basic model of pre-test likelihood plus X-ECG was quantified using logistic regression analysis. Model differences were then assessed using differences in C-index and in net reclassification improvement (NRI). The basic model had a C-index of 0.73 (95%CI 0.66-0.80). This significantly increased to 0.85 (95%CI 0.80-0.91) by addition of only SPECT, to 0.90 (95%CI 0.85-0.94) when adding only CCTA, and to 0.96 (95%CI 0.92-0.99) when adding hybrid SPECT/CCTA. The accompanying NRIs were 0.82 (95%CI 0.62-1.02), 0.86 (95%CI 0.66-1.06) and 1.57 (95%CI 1.11-1.59) respectively. Current analysis resembles clinical routine of layered testing and shows that hybrid SPECT/CCTA imaging has a substantially higher yield than standalone SPECT or CCTA in the diagnostic workup of patients suspected of significant CAD.

