title: Can FDG-PET assist in radiotherapy target volume definition of metastatic lymph nodes in head-and-neck cancer?

## Schinagl, Dominic A X. and Hoffmann, Aswin L. and Vogel, Wouter V. and van Dalen, Jorn A. and Verstappen, Suzan M M. and Oyen, Wim J G. and Kaanders, Johannes H A M.
RTO

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radonc.2009.02.007">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The role of FDG-PET in radiotherapy target volume definition of the neck was evaluated by comparing eight methods of FDG-PET segmentation to the current CT-based practice of lymph node assessment in head-and-neck cancer patients.Seventy-eight head-and-neck cancer patients underwent coregistered CT- and FDG-PET scans. Lymph nodes were classified as "enlarged" if the shortest axial diameter on CT was 10mm, and as "marginally enlarged" if it was 7-10mm. Subsequently, lymph nodes were assessed on FDG-PET applying eight segmentation methods: visual interpretation (PET(VIS)), applying fixed thresholds at a standardized uptake value (SUV) of 2.5 and at 40% and 50% of the maximum signal intensity of the primary tumor (PET(SUV), PET(40%), PET(50%)) and applying a variable threshold based on the signal-to-background ratio (PET(SBR)). Finally, PET(40%N), PET(50%N) and PET(SBRN) were acquired using the signal of the lymph node as the threshold reference.Of 108 nodes classified as "enlarged" on CT, 75% were also identified by PET(VIS), 59% by PET(40%), 43% by PET(50%) and 43% by PET(SBR). Of 100 nodes classified as "marginally enlarged", only a minority were visualized by FDG-PET. The respective numbers were 26%, 10%, 7% and 8% for PET(VIS), PET(40%), PET(50%) and PET(SBR). PET(40%N), PET(50%N) and PET(SBRN), respectively, identified 66%, 82% and 96% of the PET(VIS)-positive nodes.Many lymph nodes that are enlarged and considered metastatic by standard CT-based criteria appear to be negative on FDG-PET scan. Alternately, a small proportion of marginally enlarged nodes are positive on FDG-PET scan. However, the results are largely dependent on the PET segmentation tool used, and until proper validation FDG-PET is not recommended for target volume definition of metastatic lymph nodes in routine practice.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfSchi09a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>