title: Low-dose gadobenate dimeglumine versus standard dose gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of the liver: an intra-individual crossover comparison

## Schneider, Gunther and Maas, Rainer and Schultze Kool, Leo and Rummeny, Ernst and Gehl, Hans-Bjorn and Lodemann, Klaus-Peter and Kirchin, Miles A.
IR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/01.RLI.0000044931.26224.F9">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Gadobenate dimeglumine (Gd-BOPTA) has a two-fold higher T1 relaxivity compared with gadopentetate dimeglumine (Gd-DTPA) and can be used for both dynamic and delayed liver MRI. This intraindividual, crossover study was conducted to compare 0.05 mmol/kg Gd-BOPTA with 0.1 mmol/kg Gd-DTPA for liver MRI.Forty-one patients underwent two identical MR examinations separated by >or= 72 hours. Precontrast T1-FLASH-2D and T2-TSE sequences and postcontrast T1-FLASH-2D sequences were acquired during the dynamic and delayed (1-2 hours) phases after each contrast injection. Images were evaluated on-site by two independent, blinded off-site readers in terms of confidence for lesion detection, lesion number, character and diagnosis, enhancement pattern, lesion-to-liver contrast, and benefit of dynamic and delayed scans. Additional on-site evaluation was performed of the overall diagnostic value of each agent.Superior diagnostic confidence was noted by on-site investigators and off-site assessors 1 and 2 for 6, 4 and 2 patients with Gd-BOPTA, and for 3, 1 and 2 patients with Gd-DTPA, respectively. No consistent differences were noted for other parameters on dynamic phase images whereas greater lesion-to-liver contrast was noted for more patients on delayed images after Gd-BOPTA. More correct diagnoses of histologically confirmed lesions (n = 26) were made with the complete Gd-BOPTA image set than with the complete Gd-DTPA set (reader 1: 68% vs. 59%; reader 2: 78% vs. 68%). The overall diagnostic value was considered superior after Gd-BOPTA in seven patients and after Gd-DTPA in one patient.The additional diagnostic information on delayed imaging, combined with the possibility to use a lower overall dose to obtain similar diagnostic information on dynamic imaging, offers a distinct clinical advantage for Gd-BOPTA for liver MRI.

