title: Interscan variation of semi-automated volumetry of subsolid pulmonary nodules

## Scholten, Ernst Th and de Jong, Pim A. and Jacobs, Colin and van Ginneken, Bram and van Riel, Sarah and Willemink, Martin J. and Vliegenthart, Rozemarijn and Oudkerk, Matthijs and de Koning, Harry J. and Horeweg, Nanda and Prokop, Mathias and Mali, Willem P Th M. and Gietema, Hester A.
ER

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00330-014-3478-1">DOI</a>

## Abstract
We aimed to test the interscan variation of semi-automatic volumetry of subsolid nodules (SSNs), as growth evaluation is important for SSN management.From a lung cancer screening trial all SSNs that were stable over at least 3 months were included (N = 44). SSNs were quantified on the baseline CT by two observers using semi-automatic volumetry software for effective diameter, volume, and mass. One observer also measured the SSNs on the second CT 3 months later. Interscan variation was evaluated using Bland-Altman plots. Observer agreement was calculated as intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Data are presented as mean (± standard deviation) or median and interquartile range (IQR). A Mann-Whitney U test was used for the analysis of the influence of adjustments on the measurements.Semi-automatic measurements were feasible in all 44 SSNs. The interscan limits of agreement ranged from -12.0 % to 9.7 % for diameter, -35.4 % to 28.6 % for volume and -27.6 % to 30.8 % for mass. Agreement between observers was good with intraclass correlation coefficients of 0.978, 0.957, and 0.968 for diameter, volume, and mass, respectively.Our data suggest that when using our software an increase in mass of 30 % can be regarded as significant growth.• Recently, recommendations regarding subsolid nodules have stressed the importance of growth quantification. • Volumetric measurement of subsolid nodules is feasible with good interscan agreement. • Increase of mass of 30 % can be regarded as significant growth.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Scho14f.pdf:pdfScho14f.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>