title: Pretargeted immuno-PET of CEA-expressing intraperitoneal human colonic tumor xenografts: a new sensitive detection method

## Schoffelen, Rafke and van der Graaf, Winette Ta and Sharkey, Robert M. and Franssen, Gerben M. and McBride, William J. and Chang, Chien-Hsing and Laverman, Peter and Goldenberg, David M. and Oyen, Wim Jg and Boerman, Otto C. and Schoffelen, Rafke and van der Graaf, Winette T A. and Sharkey, Robert M. and Franssen, Gerben M. and McBride, William J. and Chang, Chien-Hsing and Bos, Desir'ee L. and Goldenberg, David M. and Oyen, Wim J G. and Boerman, Otto C.
JNM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.2967/jnumed.112.106278">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The prospects for using pretargeted immuno-SPECT to monitor the response to pretargeted radioimmunotherapy were examined. In this study, a bispecific anticarcinoembryonic antigen (CEACAM5; CD66e) × antihapten monoclonal antibody, TF2, was used in combination with a small (1.5 kD) peptide, IMP288, labeled with (111)In and (177)Lu.First, tumor uptake of (111)In-IMP288 and (177)Lu-IMP288, as determined by immuno-SPECT, was validated by ex vivo counting. Two groups of female BALB/c nude mice had LS174T tumors implanted in the peritoneal cavity. They received intravenous injections of TF2, followed by 10 MBq of (111)In-IMP288 or 90 MBq of (177)Lu-IMP288. A control group of non-tumor-bearing mice received TF2 and (111)In-IMP288. One hour after the radiolabeled IMP288 was given, small-animal SPECT/CT images were acquired, and subsequently animals were dissected. Furthermore, a survival study was performed in 3 groups of 10 mice with intraperitoneal tumors: mice received TF2 and (177)Lu-IMP288 (60 MBq), nonpretargeted (177)Lu-IMP288 (60 MBq), or phosphate-buffered saline. Immuno-SPECT scans were acquired directly after therapy and at 14 and 45 d after therapy. Tumor growth was analyzed in the successive scans in each animal.(111)In- and (177)Lu-labeled IMP288 had similar in vivo distribution. The activity measured in the pretargeted immuno-SPECT images correlated well with the uptake measured in the dissected tumors (Pearson r = 0.99, P < 0.05). In the therapy study, the SPECT images showed rapid and selective tumor targeting with high tumor-to-background contrast (30 ± 12) as early as 1 h after injection. The successive images of the treated mice showed delayed tumor growth in the pretargeted radioimmunotherapy group, corresponding with their prolonged survival.Pretargeted immuno-SPECT with TF2 and (111)In- or (177)Lu-IMP288 can be used to predict and confirm tumor targeting and monitor the therapeutic effect of pretargeted radioimmunotherapy.

