title: Are behavioural risk factors to be blamed for the conversion from optimal blood pressure to hypertensive status in Black South Africans? A 5-year prospective study

## Schutte, Aletta E. and Schutte, Rudolph and Huisman, Hugo W. and van Rooyen, Johannes M. and Fourie, Carla M T. and Malan, Nico T. and Malan, Leon'e and Mels, Catharina M C. and Smith, Wayne and Moss, Sarah J. and Towers, G Wayne and Kruger, H Salom'e and Wentzel-Viljoen, Edelweiss and Vorster, Hester H. and Kruger, Annamarie
IJEPI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dys106">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Longitudinal cohort studies in sub-Saharan Africa are urgently needed to understand cardiovascular disease development. We, therefore, explored health behaviours and conventional risk factors of African individuals with optimal blood pressure (BP) (≤ 120/80 mm Hg), and their 5-year prediction for the development of hypertension.The Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology study in the North West Province, South Africa, started in 2005 and included African volunteers (n = 1994; aged > 30 years) from a sample of 6000 randomly selected households in rural and urban areas.At baseline, 48% of the participants were hypertensive (≥ 140/90 mmHg). Those with optimal BP (n = 478) were followed at a success rate of 70% for 5 years (213 normotensive, 68 hypertensive, 57 deceased). Africans that became hypertensive smoked more than the normotensive individuals (68.2% vs 49.8%), and they also had a greater waist circumference [ratio of geometric means of 0.94 cm (95% CI: 0.86-0.99)] and greater amount of γ-glutamyltransferase [0.74 U/l (95% CI: 0.62-0.88)] at baseline. The 5-year change in BP was independently explained by baseline γ-glutamyltransferase [R(2) = 0.23, β = 0.13 U/l (95% CI: 0.01-0.19)]. Alcohol intake also predicted central systolic BP and carotid cross-sectional wall area (CSWA) at follow-up. Waist circumference was another predictor of BP changes [β = 0.18 cm (95% CI: 0.05-0.24)] and CSWA. HIV infection was inversely associated with increased BP.During the 5 years, 24% of Africans with optimal BP developed hypertension. The surge in hypertension in Africa is largely explained by modifiable risk factors. Public health strategies should focus aggressively on lifestyle to prevent a catastrophic burden on the national health system.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Schu12.pdf:pdfSchu12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>