title: Biological effects of high energy shock waves in mouse skeletal muscle: correlation between 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopic and microscopic alterations

## Smits, G. A. and Jap, P. H. and Heerschap, A. and Oosterhof, G. O. and Debruyne, F. M. and Schalken, J. A.
UMB


## Abstract
To investigate the in vivo effects of electromagnetically generated high energy shock waves (HESW) on skeletal muscle, we used in vivo 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy (MRS) measurements and correlated the results with microscopical studies. Mouse skeletal muscle (calf muscle) was exposed to 200 or 800 HESW (Pmax: 37.5 MPa, Pmin: 5.2 MPa, tr: 30-120 ns, tw: 340 ns, frequency: 1.25 Hz). In the 31P MRS spectra, transient alterations were observed. A prominent increase of inorganic phosphate (Pi) peaks was found, as well as the appearance of Pi with different chemical shifts, reflecting the presence of different pH values (5.4-7.1) in cellular or tissue compartments. Within 20-96 h after exposure, pH values and Pi levels returned to normal. The changes were more pronounced in the animals treated with 800 HESW as compared to 200 HESW. Light and electron microscopy demonstrated focal degenerations of muscle fibers. This process consisted of disorganization of myofilaments and structural changes in sarcoplasmic organelles and was progressive in time. The (ultra)structural changes were not present in all myofibers (i.e., between affected degenerating fibers unaffected intact fibers were seen). Several ultrastructural abnormalities were also found in capillaries even up to severe dilatation and disruption, as well as in the peripheral nerves. The degeneration of the preexisting myofibers was predominantly confined to type 1 fibers and was followed by a regeneration of the muscle tissue by proliferation of myoblasts. A notable amount of myotubes still showed vacuolization. We conclude that in vivo HESW exposure of skeletal muscle tissue results in a degeneration of myofibers. The cellular effects are present in foci and associated with changes in the 31P NMR spectra. The NMR spectroscopy technique provides us with a noninvasive method to evaluate in a longitudinal way the biological effects of HESW.

