title: Evaluation of tongue squamous cell carcinoma resection margins using ex-vivo MR.

## Steens, Stefan C A and Bekers, Elise M and Weijs, Willem L J and Litjens, Geert J S and Veltien, Andor and Maat, Arie and van den Broek, Guido B and van der Laak, Jeroen A W M and Fütterer, Jürgen J and van der Kaa, Christina A Hulsbergen and Merkx, Matthias A W and Takes, Robert P
International journal of computer assisted radiology and surgery

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s11548-017-1524-6">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Purpose of this feasibility study was (1) to evaluate whether application of ex-vivo 7T MR of the resected tongue specimen containing squamous cell carcinoma may provide information on the resection margin status and (2) to evaluate the research and developmental issues that have to be solved for this technique to have the beneficial impact on clinical outcome that we expect: better oncologic and functional outcomes, better quality of life, and lower costs. We performed a non-blinded validation of ex-vivo 7T MR to detect the tongue squamous cell carcinoma and resection margin in 10 fresh tongue specimens using histopathology as gold standard. In six of seven specimens with a histopathologically determined invasion depth of the tumor of [Formula: see text] mm, the tumor could be recognized on MR, with a resection margin within a 2 mm range as compared to histopathology. In three specimens with an invasion depth of [Formula: see text] mm, the tumor was not visible on MR. Technical limitations mainly included scan time, image resolution, and the fact that we used a less available small-bore 7T MR machine. Ex-vivo 7T probably will have a low negative predictive value but a high positive predictive value, meaning that in tumors thicker than a few millimeters we expect to be able to predict whether the resection margin is too small. A randomized controlled trial needs to be performed to show our hypothesis: better oncologic and functional outcomes, better quality of life, and lower costs.

