title: Cardiovascular and thrombogenic risk of decidual vasculopathy in preeclampsia

## Stevens, Dro"ima U. and Al-Nasiry, Salwan and Fajta, Marcela M. and Bulten, Johan and van Dijk, Arie P. and van der Vlugt, Maureen J. and Oyen, Wim J. and van Vugt, John M. and Spaanderman, Marc E.
AJOG

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajog.2013.12.029">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Women with a history of preeclampsia (PE) have an increased prevalence of cardiometabolic, cardiovascular, and prothrombotic risk factors. Remotely, these women are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular and thrombotic disease. Decidual vasculopathy (DV) describes vascular lesions in the maternal spiral arteries of the uterus, which are found in approximately 40-60% of women with PE. DV is thought to be related to atherosclerosis because of their morphological similarity. The aim of this study was to investigate the association of cardiovascular and thrombogenic risk factors with DV in women with a history of PE.We retrospectively analyzed the cardiovascular and thrombogenic risk of women with a history of PE, comparing cases with DV (n = 95) with cases without the lesions (n = 81) 7 months after the index pregnancy. Data from a cohort of patients with a history of PE were matched with records from our pathology database.The DV group showed higher diastolic blood pressure (73 vs 70 mm Hg, P = .031), lower left ventricular stroke volume (71 vs 76 mL, P = .032), higher total peripheral vascular resistance (1546 vs 1385, P = .009), and a higher percentage of low plasma volume (34% vs 19%, P = .030). DV did not relate to other cardiovascular parameters, urinary protein, body mass index, lipid or glucose metabolism parameters, or thrombophilia.In this study, in women with a history of PE, cases with DV had increased cardiovascular risk, exhibiting circulatory alterations, suggesting reduced venous reserves and elevated arterial tone, without metabolic or thrombophilic disturbances.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Stev13.pdf:pdfStev13.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>