title: Phase 1 radioimmunotherapy study with lutetium 177-labeled anti-carbonic anhydrase IX monoclonal antibody girentuximab in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma

## Stillebroer, Alexander B. and Boerman, Otto C. and Desar, Ingrid M E. and Boers-Sonderen, Marije J. and van Herpen, Carla M L. and Langenhuijsen, Johannes F. and Smith-Jones, Peter M. and Oosterwijk, Egbert and Oyen, Wim J G. and Mulders, Peter F A.
EU

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2012.08.024">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) have a dismal prognosis. Therefore, new and less toxic treatments are needed.We determined the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and potential therapeutic efficacy of multiple infusions of lutetium 177 ((177)Lu)-girentuximab (cG250) on various dose levels in a phase 1 trial in patients with progressive metastasized ccRCC.In this uncontrolled case series in 23 patients with progressive ccRCC metastases, cG250 accumulation was verified by diagnostic indium 111-cG250 imaging. Patients then received a high-activity dose of (177)Lu-cG250.Groups of three patients received (177)Lu-cG250, starting at a dose level of 1110 MBq/m(2)(177)Lu-cG250, with dose increments of 370 MBq/m(2) per group. In the absence of persistent toxicity, progressive disease, and accelerated blood clearance, patients were eligible for retreatment after 3 mo with 75% of the previous activity dose. Patients could receive a total of three treatment cycles.Determination of the MTD was the primary and therapeutic efficacy was the secondary outcome measurement of the study.The MTD was 2405 MBq/m(2) because higher doses resulted in dose-limiting myelotoxicity. Some patients received second (13 of 23 [56%]) and third (4 of 23 [17%]) treatment cycles. Most patients (17 of 23 [74%]) demonstrated stable disease 3 mo after the first treatment, and one patient showed a partial response that lasted for 9 mo. Mean growth of target tumor lesions was reduced from 40.4% (95% confidence interval [CI], ± 17.0) during the last 3 mo before study entry to 5.5% (95% CI, ± 5.3; p<0.001) at 3 mo after the first treatment cycle. No major nonhematologic side effects were observed.(177)Lu-cG250 radioimmunotherapy in metastatic ccRCC patients is well tolerated at an activity dose level as high as 2405 MBq/m(2) (MTD). Radioimmunotherapy with (177)Lu-cG250 may stabilize previously progressive metastatic ccRCC.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Stil13a.pdf:pdf/Stil13a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>