title: Pulmonary function and CT biomarkers as risk factors for cardiovascular events in male lung cancer screening participants: the NELSON study

## Takx, Richard A P. and Vliegenthart, Rozemarijn and Mohamed Hoesein, Firdaus A A and Ivsgum, Ivana and de Koning, Harry J. and Mali, Willem P Th M. and van der Aalst, Carlijn M. and Zanen, Pieter and Lammers, Jan-Willem J. and Groen, Harry J M. and van Rikxoort, Eva M. and Schmidt, Michael and van Ginneken, Bram and Oudkerk, Matthijs and Leiner, Tim and de Jong, Pim A.
ER

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00330-014-3384-6">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The objective of this study was to investigate the association of spirometry and pulmonary CT biomarkers with cardiovascular events.In this lung cancer screening trial 3,080 male participants without a prior cardiovascular event were analysed. Fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events were included. Spirometry included forced expiratory volume measured in units of one-second percent predicted (FEV1%predicted) and FEV1 divided by forced vital capacity (FVC; FEV1/FVC). CT examinations were quantified for coronary artery calcium volume, pulmonary emphysema (perc15) and bronchial wall thickness (pi10). Data were analysed via a Cox proportional hazard analysis, net reclassification improvement (NRI) and C-indices.184 participants experienced a cardiovascular event during a median follow-up of 2.9 years. Age, pack-years and smoking status adjusted hazard ratios were 0.992 (95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.985-0.999) for FEV1%predicted, 1.000 (95%CI 0.986-1.015) for FEV1/FVC, 1.014 (95%CI 1.005-1.023) for perc15 per 10 HU, and 1.269 (95%CI 1.024-1.573) for pi10 per 1 mm. The incremental C-index (<0.015) and NRI (<2.8 %) were minimal. Coronary artery calcium volume had a hazard ratio of 1.046 (95%CI 1.034-1.058) per 100 mm(3), an increase in C-index of 0.076 and an NRI of 16.9 % (P < 0.0001).Pulmonary CT biomarkers and spirometry measurements were significantly associated with cardiovascular events, but did not contain clinically relevant independent prognostic information for cardiovascular events.• Pulmonary CT biomarkers and spirometry are associated with cardiovascular events • These pulmonary measurements do not contain clinically relevant independent prognostic information • Only coronary calcium score improved cardiovascular risk prediction above age and smoking.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Takx14.pdf:pdfTakx14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>