title: Comparison of the inflammatory burden of truly asymptomatic carotid atheroma with atherosclerotic plaques in patients with asymptomatic carotid stenosis undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting: an ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide enhanced magnetic resonance study.

## Tang, T Y and Howarth, S P S and Miller, S R and Graves, M J and U-King-Im, J M and Li, Z Y and Walsh, S R and Hayes, P D and Varty, K and Gillard, J H
European journal of vascular and endovascular surgery : the official journal of the European Society for Vascular Surgery

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejvs.2007.10.019">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Inflammation is a recognized risk factor for the vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque. The aim of this study was to explore whether there is a difference in the degree of Magnetic Resonance (MR) defined inflammation using Ultra Small Super-Paramagnetic Iron Oxide (USPIO) particles, within carotid atheroma in completely asymptomatic individuals and the asymptomatic carotid stenosis in a cohort of patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). 10 patients awaiting CABG with asymptomatic carotid disease and 10 completely asymptomatic individuals with no documented coronary artery disease underwent multi-sequence MR imaging before and 36 hours post USPIO infusion. Images were manually segmented into quadrants and signal change in each quadrant, normalised to adjacent muscle signal, was calculated following USPIO administration. The mean percentage of quadrants showing signal loss was 94% in the CABG group, compared to 24% in the completely asymptomatic individuals (p<0.001). The carotid plaques from the CABG patients showed a significant mean signal intensity decrease of 16.4% after USPIO infusion (95% CI 10.6% to 22.2%; p<0.001). The truly asymptomatic plaques showed a mean signal intensity increase (i.e. enhancement) after USPIO infusion of 8.4% (95% CI 2.6% to 14.2%; p=0.007). The mean signal difference between the two groups was 24.9% (95% CI 16.7% to 33.0%; p<0.001). These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that inflammatory atheroma is a systemic disease. The carotid territory is more likely to take up USPIO if another vascular territory is symptomatic.

