title: Development of a decision support system for diagnosis and grading of brain tumours using in vivo magnetic resonance single voxel spectra

## Tate, Anne R. and Underwood, Joshua and Acosta, Dionisio M. and Julia-Sap'e, Margarida and Maj'os, Carles and Moreno-Torres, Angel and Howe, Franklyn A. and van der Graaf, Marinette and Lefournier, Virginie and Murphy, Mary M. and Loosemore, Alison and Ladroue, Christophe and Wesseling, Pieter and Luc Bosson, Jean and Caba~nas, Miquel E. and Simonetti, Arjan W. and Gajewicz, Witold and Calvar, Jorge and Capdevila, Antoni and Wilkins, Peter R. and Bell, B Anthony and R'emy, Chantal and Heerschap, Arend and Watson, Des and Griffiths, John R. and Ar'us, Carles
NMRB

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/nbm.1016">DOI</a>

## Abstract
A computer-based decision support system to assist radiologists in diagnosing and grading brain tumours has been developed by the multi-centre INTERPRET project. Spectra from a database of 1H single-voxel spectra of different types of brain tumours, acquired in vivo from 334 patients at four different centres, are clustered according to their pathology, using automated pattern recognition techniques and the results are presented as a two-dimensional scatterplot using an intuitive graphical user interface (GUI). Formal quality control procedures were performed to standardize the performance of the instruments and check each spectrum, and teams of expert neuroradiologists, neurosurgeons, neurologists and neuropathologists clinically validated each case. The prototype decision support system (DSS) successfully classified 89% of the cases in an independent test set of 91 cases of the most frequent tumour types (meningiomas, low-grade gliomas and high-grade malignant tumours--glioblastomas and metastases). It also helps to resolve diagnostic difficulty in borderline cases. When the prototype was tested by radiologists and other clinicians it was favourably received. Results of the preliminary clinical analysis of the added value of using the DSS for brain tumour diagnosis with MRS showed a small but significant improvement over MRI used alone. In the comparison of individual pathologies, PNETs were significantly better diagnosed with the DSS than with MRI alone.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Tate06.pdf:pdfTate06.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>