title: Cardiological Ultrasound Imaging

## Thijssen, Johan M. and de Korte, Chris L.
Curr Pharm Des

<a href="https://doi.org/10.2174/1381612820666140417113304">DOI</a>

## Abstract
This review paper is intended for the interested outsider of the field of echocardiography and it presents a short introduction into the numerous ultrasound (US) methods and techniques for anatomical and functional diagnosis of the heart. The basic techniques are generally used for some time already, as there are the one dimensional (1D) M(otion) mode, the real time 2D B(rightness) mode technique and the various Doppler measurement techniques and imaging modes. The M-mode technique shows the movements of the tissue in a 1D B-mode display vs. time. The 2D B-mode images are showing the heart contractions and dilations in real time, thus making this technique the basic tool for detecting anatomical disturbances and myocardial (localized) abnormal functioning. Improved image quality is achieved by Second Harmonic Imaging and myocardial perfusion can be quantified using Contrast Agent Imaging. Doppler techniques were introduced in the fifties of last century and used for blood flow velocity measurement. Continuous wave (CW) Doppler has the advantage of allowing measurement of high velocities, as may occur in vascular or valvular stenosis and insufficiency. The exact location of the major Doppler signal received cannot be estimated making this technique ambiguous in some clinical problems. Single gated Pulse Wave (PW) Doppler velocity measurement delivers exact location of the measurement position by using an interactively positioned time (=depth) gate in which the velocity is being measured. The disadvantage of this technique is the relatively low maximum velocity that can be measured. Multigate PW Doppler techniques can be used for the assessment of a velocity profile over the vessel cross section. A more sophisticated use of this technique is the combination with 2D B-mode imaging in the color Doppler mode, called "color flow mapping", in which the multigate Doppler signal is color coded and shown in 2D format overlayed in the conventional 2D B mode image. In the past two decades, technique to quantify myocardial function were developed: Tissue Doppler Imaging (TDI), Strain Rate and Strain Imaging. The temporal resolution of ultrasound imaging can be further improved by Plane Wave Imaging, and Synthetic Aperture Imaging. The recent introduction of 2D matrix transducers extended the real time imaging potential by allowing 3D imaging and sophisticated segmentation techniques for the estimation of quantitative functional parameters, as for instance cardiac output.

