title: Combined ultrasmall superparamagnetic particles of iron oxide-enhanced and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging reliably detect pelvic lymph node metastases in normal-sized nodes of bladder and prostate cancer patients

## Harriet C Thoeny and Maria Triantafyllou and Frederic D Birkhaeuser and Johannes M Froehlich and Dechen W Tshering and Tobias Binser and Achim Fleischmann and Peter Vermathen and Urs E Studer
EU

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2008.12.034">DOI</a>

## Abstract
BACKGROUND: Lymph node staging of bladder or prostate cancer using conventional imaging is limited. Newer approaches such as ultrasmall superparamagnetic particles of iron oxide (USPIO) and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) have inconsistent diagnostic accuracy and are difficult to interpret. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether combined USPIO and DW-MRI (USPIO-DW-MRI) improves staging of normal-sized lymph nodes in bladder and/or prostate cancer patients. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-one consecutive patients with bladder and/or prostate cancer were enrolled between May and October 2008. One patient was excluded secondary to bone metastases detected on DW-MRI with subsequent abstention from surgery. INTERVENTION: Patients preoperatively underwent 3-T MRI before and after administration of lymphotropic USPIO using conventional MRI sequences combined with DW-MRI. Surgery consisted of extended pelvic lymphadenectomy and resection of primary tumors. MEASUREMENTS: Diagnostic accuracies of the new combined USPIO-DW-MRI approach compared with the "classic" reading method evaluating USPIO images without and with DW-MRI versus histopathology were evaluated. Duration of the two reading methods was noted for each patient. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Diagnostic accuracy (90% per patient or per pelvic side) was comparable for the classic and the USPIO-DW-MRI reading method, while time of analysis with 80 min (range 45-180 min) for the classic and 13 min (range 5-90 min) for the USPIO-DW-MRI method was significantly shorter (p<0.0001). Interobserver agreement (three blinded readers) was high with a kappa value of 0.75 and 0.84, respectively. Histopathological analysis showed metastases in 26 of 802 analyzed lymph nodes (3.2%). Of these, 24 nodes (92%) were correctly diagnosed as positive on USPIO-DW-MRI. In two patients, one micrometastasis each (1.0x0.2 mm; 0.7x0.4 mm) was missed in all imaging studies. CONCLUSIONS: USPIO-DW-MRI is a fast and accurate method for detecting pelvic lymph node metastases, even in normal-sized nodes of bladder or prostate cancer patients.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Thoe09.pdf:pdf/Thoe09.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>