title: Clot Burden Score on Baseline Computerized Tomographic Angiography and Intra-Arterial Treatment Effect in Acute Ischemic Stroke.

## Treurniet, Kilian M and Yoo, Albert J and Berkhemer, Olvert A and Lingsma, Hester F and Boers, Anna M M and Fransen, Puck S S and Beumer, Debbie and van den Berg, Lucie A and Sprengers, Marieke E S and Jenniskens, Sjoerd F M and Lycklama A Nijeholt, Geert J and van Walderveen, Marianne A A and Bot, Joseph C J and Beenen, Ludo F M and van den Berg, René and van Zwam, Wim H and van der Lugt, Aad and van Oostenbrugge, Robert J and Dippel, Diederik W J and Roos, Yvo B W E M and Marquering, Henk A and Majoie, Charles B L M and MR CLEAN Investigators
Stroke

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1161/STROKEAHA.116.014565">DOI</a>

## Abstract
A high clot burden score (CBS) is associated with favorable outcome after intravenous treatment for acute ischemic stroke. The added benefit of intra-arterial treatment might be less in these patients. The aim of this exploratory post hoc analysis was to assess the relation of CBS with neurological improvement and endovascular treatment effect. For 499 of 500 patients in the MR CLEAN study (Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial of Endovascular Treatment for Acute Ischemic Stroke in the Netherlands), the CBS was determined. Ordinal logistic regression models with and without main baseline prognostic variables were used to assess the association between CBS (continuous or dichotomized at CBS of 6) and a shift toward better outcome on the modified Rankin Scale. The model without main baseline prognostic variables only included treatment allocation and CBS. Models with and without a multiplicative interaction term of CBS and treatment were compared using the ?(2) test to assess treatment effect modification by CBS. Higher CBS was associated with a shift toward better outcome on the modified Rankin Scale; adjusted common odds ratio per point CBS was 1.12 (95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.20]. Dichotomized CBS had an adjusted common odds ratio of 1.67 (95% confidence interval, 1.12-2.51). Both effect estimates were slightly attenuated by adding baseline prognostic variables. The addition of the interaction terms did not significantly improve the fit of the models. There was a small and insignificant increase of intra-arterial treatment efficacy in the high CBS group. A higher CBS is associated with improved outcome and may be used as a prognostic marker. We found no evidence that CBS modifies the effect of intra-arterial treatment. URL: http://www.trialregister.nl. Unique identifier: NTR1804. URL: http://www.controlled-trials.com. Unique identifier: ISRCTN10888758.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Treu16.pdf:pdfTreu16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>