title: Histopathologic validation of 3'-deoxy-3'-18F-fluorothymidine PET in squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity

## Troost, Esther G C. and Bussink, Johan and Slootweg, Piet J. and Peeters, Wenny J M. and Merkx, Matthias A W. and van der Kogel, Albert J. and Oyen, Wim J G. and Kaanders, Johannes H A M.
JNM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.2967/jnumed.109.071910">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Accelerated tumor cell repopulation is an important mechanism adversely affecting therapeutic outcome in head and neck cancer. The noninvasive assessment of the proliferative state of a tumor by PET may provide a selection tool for customized treatment. 3'-deoxy-3'-(18)F-fluorothymidine ((18)F-FLT) is a PET tracer that is phosphorylated by thymidine kinase 1 (TK-1) and, as such, reflects cellular proliferation. Before the use of (18)F-FLT PET for tumor characterization is accepted and introduced into clinical studies, validation against tumor histology is mandatory. The aim of this study was to validate (18)F-FLT PET in squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity using immunohistochemical staining for the proliferation marker iododeoxyuridine and for TK-1.Seventeen patients with primary squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity underwent an (18)F-FLT PET/CT scan before surgery, and iododeoxyuridine was administered 20 min before tumor resection. (18)F-FLT PET/CT scans were segmented, and PET/CT volumes and PET signal intensities were calculated (mean standardized uptake value [SUV(mean)] and maximum standardized uptake value [SUV(max)]). Multiple paraffin-embedded tumor sections were immunohistochemically stained for iododeoxyuridine and TK-1. For iododeoxyuridine, labeling indices and optical densities were calculated and correlated with SUV(mean) and SUV(max). TK-1 staining was visually and semiquantitatively assessed.All primary tumors were identified with (18)F-FLT PET but with a large range in tracer uptake (mean SUV(max), 5.9; range, 2.2-15.2). Also, there was a large variability in iododeoxyuridine labeling indices (mean, 0.09; range, 0.01-0.29) and optical densities (mean, 28.2; range, 12.6-37.8). The iododeoxyuridine optical densities correlated significantly with SUV(mean) and SUV(max), but the labeling indices did not. In most tumors, TK-1 staining of varying intensity was present but correlated with neither iododeoxyuridine binding nor (18)F-FLT uptake.The current study demonstrated only a weak correlation between (18)F-FLT uptake and iododeoxyuridine staining intensity in oral cavity tumors. This weak correlation may be explained by differences in biomarker characteristics, resolution, and quantification methods.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfTroo10c.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>