title: Congenital heart disease in children: coronary MR angiography during systole and diastole with dual cardiac phase whole-heart imaging

## Sergio Uribe and Tarique Hussain and Israel Valverde and Cristian Tejos and Pablo Irarrazaval and Mario Fava and Philipp Beerbaum and Rene M Botnar and Reza Razavi and Tobias Schaeffter and Gerald F Greil
Radiology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.11101659">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To assess the optimal timing for coronary magnetic resonance (MR) angiography in children with congenital heart disease by using dual cardiac phase whole-heart MR imaging.The local institutional review board approved this study, and informed consent was obtained from parents or guardians. Thirty children (13 girls; overall mean age, 5.01 years) were examined with a 1.5-T MR system. A free-breathing three-dimensional steady-state free precession dual cardiac phase sequence was used to obtain MR angiographic data during end-systolic and middiastolic rest periods. Vessel length, diameter, and sharpness, as well as image quality of the coronary artery segments, were analyzed and compared by using Bland-Altman plots, linear regression analysis, the t test, and Wilcoxon signed rank tests.Optimal coronary artery imaging timing was patient dependent and different for each coronary artery segment (36 segments favored end systole, 28 favored middiastole). In 15 patients (50%), different segments favored different cardiac phases within the same patient. Image quality and vessel sharpness degraded with higher heart rates, with a similar correlation for end systole (right coronary artery [RCA], 0.39; left main [LM] coronary artery, 0.46; left anterior descending [LAD] artery, 0.51; and left circumflex [LCX] artery, 0.50) and middiastole (RCA, 0.34; LM, 0.45; LAD, 0.48; and LCx, 0.55). Mean image quality difference or mean vessel sharpness difference showed no indication to prefer a specific cardiac phase.The optimal cardiac rest period for coronary MR angiography in children with congenital heart disease is specific for each coronary artery segment. Dual cardiac phase whole-heart coronary MR angiography enables optimal coronary artery visualization by retrospectively choosing the optimal imaging rest period.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Urib11.pdf:pdfUrib11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>