title: CT angiography and CT perfusion improve prediction of infarct volume in patients with anterior circulation stroke.

## van Seeters, Tom and Biessels, Geert Jan and Kappelle, L Jaap and van der Schaaf, Irene C. and Dankbaar, Jan Willem and Horsch, Alexander D. and Niesten, Joris M. and Luitse, Merel J A. and Majoie, Charles B L M. and Vos, Jan Albert and Schonewille, Wouter J. and van Walderveen, Marianne A A. and Wermer, Marieke J H. and Duijm, Lucien E M. and Keizer, Koos and Bot, Joseph C J. and Visser, Marieke C. and van der Lugt, Aad and Dippel, Diederik W J. and Kesselring, F Oskar H W. and Hofmeijer, Jeannette and Lycklama `A Nijeholt, Geert J. and Boiten, Jelis and van Rooij, Willem Jan and de Kort, Paul L M. and Roos, Yvo B W E M. and Meijer, Frederick J A. and Pleiter, C Constantijn and Mali, Willem P T M. and van der Graaf, Yolanda and Velthuis, Birgitta K. and , Dutch acute stroke study (D. U. S. T) investigators
Neuroradiology


## Abstract
We investigated whether baseline CT angiography (CTA) and CT perfusion (CTP) in acute ischemic stroke could improve prediction of infarct presence and infarct volume on follow-up imaging.We analyzed 906 patients with suspected anterior circulation stroke from the prospective multicenter Dutch acute stroke study (DUST). All patients underwent baseline non-contrast CT, CTA, and CTP and follow-up non-contrast CT/MRI after 3 days. Multivariable regression models were developed including patient characteristics and non-contrast CT, and subsequently, CTA and CTP measures were added. The increase in area under the curve (AUC) and R (2) was assessed to determine the additional value of CTA and CTP.At follow-up, 612 patients (67.5 %) had a detectable infarct on CT/MRI; median infarct volume was 14.8 mL (interquartile range (IQR) 2.8-69.6). Regarding infarct presence, the AUC of 0.82 (95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.79-0.85) for patient characteristics and non-contrast CT was improved with addition of CTA measures (AUC 0.85 (95 % CI 0.82-0.87); p < 0.001) and was even higher after addition of CTP measures (AUC 0.89 (95 % CI 0.87-0.91); p < 0.001) and combined CTA/CTP measures (AUC 0.89 (95 % CI 0.87-0.91); p < 0.001). For infarct volume, adding combined CTA/CTP measures (R (2) = 0.58) was superior to patient characteristics and non-contrast CT alone (R (2) = 0.44) and to addition of CTA alone (R (2) = 0.55) or CTP alone (R (2) = 0.54; all p < 0.001).In the acute stage, CTA and CTP have additional value over patient characteristics and non-contrast CT for predicting infarct presence and infarct volume on follow-up imaging. These findings could be applied for patient selection in future trials on ischemic stroke treatment.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send van16c.pdf:pdfvan16c.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>