title: Reducing renal uptake of radiolabeled peptides using albumin fragments

## Vegt, Erik and van Eerd, Julli"ette E M. and Eek, Annemarie and Oyen, Wim J G. and Wetzels, Jack F M. and de Jong, Marion and Russel, Frans G M. and Masereeuw, Rosalinde and Gotthardt, Martin and Boerman, Otto C.
JNM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.2967/jnumed.108.053249">DOI</a>

## Abstract
In most types of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy, the maximum activity dose that can be administered is limited by high and persistent renal retention of the radiolabeled peptides, which is, at least partly, mediated by the megalin receptor. Several agents that interfere with renal reabsorption of radiolabeled peptides have been identified (e.g., lysine, arginine, succinylated gelatin solution), but none of these inhibit renal reabsorption completely. Albumin, a naturally abundant megalin ligand, might be a safe and potent alternative. In this study, we analyzed the effects of albumin and fragments of albumin (FRALB) on the renal reabsorption of (111)In-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA)-d-Phe(1)-octreotide ((111)In-octreotide), [Lys(40)(aminohexoic acid-DTPA-(111)In)NH(2)]-exendin-4 ((111)In-exendin), and (111)In-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetic acid (DOTA)-Glu(1)-minigastrin ((111)In-minigastrin).The effects of albumin and FRALB on megalin-associated binding of (111)In-octreotide, (111)In-exendin, and (111)In-minigastrin were assessed in vitro using rat yolk sac epithelial (BN16) cells. In vivo, uptake and localization of (111)In-albumin and (111)In-FRALB in the kidneys of Wistar rats were determined, as well as the effect of lysine, succinylated gelatin solution, albumin, and FRALB on the kidney uptake of (111)In-octreotide, (111)In-exendin, and (111)In-minigastrin.FRALB significantly reduced binding and uptake of (111)In-octreotide, (111)In-exendin, and (111)In-minigastrin by BN16 cells. In rats, renal uptake of (111)In-labeled FRALB was significantly higher than that of (111)In-labeled intact albumin (P<0.001). FRALB administration effectively reduced renal uptake of (111)In-octreotide, (111)In-exendin, and (111)In-minigastrin. Administration of 1-2 mg of FRALB reduced renal uptake of (111)In-octreotide as efficiently as 80 mg of lysine.Renal uptake of (111)In-octreotide and other radiolabeled peptides in rats can be effectively reduced by administration of albumin fragments. Additional studies to identify the albumin fragments responsible for inhibition of renal peptide uptake are warranted.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfVegt08.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>