title: Albumin-derived peptides efficiently reduce renal uptake of radiolabelled peptides

## Vegt, Erik and Eek, Annemarie and Oyen, Wim J G. and de Jong, Marion and Gotthardt, Martin and Boerman, Otto C.
EJNMMI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00259-009-1239-1">DOI</a>

## Abstract
In peptide-receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT), the maximum activity dose that can safely be administered is limited by high renal uptake and retention of radiolabelled peptides. The kidney radiation dose can be reduced by coinfusion of agents that competitively inhibit the reabsorption of radiolabelled peptides, such as positively charged amino acids, Gelofusine, or trypsinised albumin. The aim of this study was to identify more specific and potent inhibitors of the kidney reabsorption of radiolabelled peptides, based on albumin.Albumin was fragmented using cyanogen bromide and six albumin-derived peptides with different numbers of electric charges were selected and synthesised. The effect of albumin fragments (FRALB-C) and selected albumin-derived peptides on the internalisation of (111)In-albumin, (111)In-minigastrin, (111)In-exendin and (111)In-octreotide by megalin-expressing cells was assessed. In rats, the effect of Gelofusine and albumin-derived peptides on the renal uptake and biodistribution of (111)In-minigastrin, (111)In-exendin and (111)In-octreotide was determined.FRALB-C significantly reduced the uptake of all radiolabelled peptides in vitro. The albumin-derived peptides showed different potencies in reducing the uptake of (111)In-albumin, (111)In-exendin and (111)In-minigastrin in vitro. The most efficient albumin-derived peptide (peptide #6), was selected for in vivo testing. In rats, 5 mg of peptide #6 very efficiently inhibited the renal uptake of (111)In-minigastrin, by 88%. Uptake of (111)In-exendin and (111)In-octreotide was reduced by 26 and 33%, respectively.The albumin-derived peptide #6 efficiently inhibited the renal reabsorption of (111)In-minigastrin, (111)In-exendin and (111)In-octreotide and is a promising candidate for kidney protection in PRRT.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Published version:pdfVegt10a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>