title: The value of scatter removal by a grid in full field digital mammography

## Wouter J H Veldkamp and Martin A O Thijssen and Nico Karssemeijer
MP


## Abstract
Our objective in this study was to investigate the usefulness of an anti-scatter grid in digital mammography using a contrast detail phantom. The mammography system we investigated was a GE Senographe 2000D. We carried out phantom measurements under various conditions with and without using the anti-scatter grid. A new version of the CDMAM phantom (version 3.4) was used. This phantom consists of a matrix of square cells with disks of varying size and contrast. For given exposure conditions detectability of these disks can be determined and used for construction of contrast detail curves. Previously, a computer program was developed at our institute that performs a fully automatic analysis of the phantom recordings using the ideal observer model. Breast thickness was simulated by a homogeneous layer of PMMA in the range of 1 to 7 cm. Series of images were recorded for different KeV and target-filter combinations depending on the simulated thickness. The dose was kept constant for each thickness with and without using a grid. It appeared that image quality improved for simulated breast thickness below 5 cm when the grid was removed. In the range from 5 to 7 cm contrast detail curves obtained with or without a grid were similar. Results suggest that for compressed breast thickness in the range of 1 to 7 cm a grid might not be needed in the digital mammography system we investigated. Below 5 cm, omitting the grid may allow lower dose to the patient without losing image quality.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Veld03b.pdf:pdfVeld03b.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>