title: Results of Targeted Biopsy in Men with Magnetic Resonance Imaging Lesions Classified Equivocal, Likely or Highly Likely to Be Clinically Significant Prostate Cancer.

## Venderink, Wulphert and van Luijtelaar, Annemarijke and Bomers, Joyce G R and van der Leest, Marloes and Hulsbergen-van de Kaa, Christina and Barentsz, Jelle O and Sedelaar, J P Michiel and Fütterer, Jurgen J
European urology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2017.02.021">DOI</a>

## Abstract
The Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) is the most commonly used scoring system in prostate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). One of the available techniques to target suspicious lesions is direct in-bore MRI-guided biopsy (MRGB). To report on the experience and results of MRGB in a large cohort of patients with lesions classified as equivocal (PI-RADS 3), likely (PI-RADS 4), or highly likely (PI-RADS 5) to be clinically significant (cs) prostate cancer (PCa). We retrospectively included 1057 patients having MRGB, between January 2012 and September 2016, of lesions classified as PI-RADS?3 on multiparametric MRI. Biopsy-naïve patients, patients with prior negative systematic transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy, and patients in active surveillance were included. The primary outcome measurement is the detection rate of csPCa. Descriptive statistics and chi-square tests were used to calculate the differences in proportions. We considered a Gleason score of ?3+4 as csPCa. PCa was diagnosed in 35% (55/156), 60% (223/373), and 91% (479/528), and csPCa in 17% (26/156), 34% (128/373), and 67% (352/528) of patients with PI-RADS 3, 4, and 5 lesions, respectively. Follow-up of patients with negative biopsy findings resulted in csPCa in 1.7% (5/300) after a median period of 41 (interquartile range 25-50) mo. The evaluation of prostate-specific antigen density (PSAD) to predict csPCa resulted in 42% of patients with a PI-RADS 3 lesion who could avoid biopsy in case a PSAD of ? 0.15ng/ml/ml would be used. In 6% (95% confidence interval, 2-15), csPCa would then be missed. The study is limited because of its retrospective character. MRGB in lesions scored PI-RADS?3 yields high detection rates of csPCa in daily clinical practice in cases with previous negative biopsy. In daily clinical practice, direct in-bore magnetic resonance imaging-guided biopsy of suspicious lesions reported according to the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System yields high detection rates of clinically significant prostate cancer.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Vend17a.pdf:pdfVend17a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>