title: Comparison of translabial three-dimensional ultrasound with magnetic resonance imaging for measurement of levator hiatal biometry at rest.

## Vergeldt, T F M and Notten, K J B and Stoker, J and Fütterer, J J and Beets-Tan, R G and Vliegen, R F A and Schweitzer, K J and Mulder, F E M and van Kuijk, S M J and Roovers, J P W R and Kluivers, K B and Weemhoff, M
Ultrasound in obstetrics & gynecology : the official journal of the International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/uog.14949">DOI</a>

## Abstract
To compare translabial three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the measurement of levator hiatal biometry at rest in women with pelvic organ prolapse, and to determine the interobserver reliability between two independent observers for ultrasound and MRI measurements. Data were derived from a multicenter prospective cohort study in which women scheduled for conventional anterior colporrhaphy underwent translabial 3D ultrasound and MRI prior to surgery. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) were calculated to estimate interobserver reliability between two independent observers and determine the agreement between ultrasound and MRI measurements. Bland-Altman plots were created to assess the agreement between ultrasound and MRI measurements. Data from 139 women from nine hospitals were included in the study. The interobserver reliability of ultrasound assessment at rest, during Valsalva maneuver and during contraction and of MRI assessment at rest were moderate or good. The agreement between ultrasound and MRI for the measurement of levator hiatal biometry at rest was moderate, with ICCs of 0.52 (95%CI, 0.32-0.66) for levator hiatal area, 0.44 (95%CI, 0.21-0.60) for anteroposterior diameter and 0.44 (95%CI, 0.22-0.60) for transverse diameter. Levator hiatal biometry measurements were statistically significantly larger on MRI than on translabial 3D ultrasound. The agreement between translabial 3D ultrasound and MRI for measurement of the levator hiatus at rest in women with pelvic organ prolapse was only moderate. The results of translabial 3D ultrasound and MRI should therefore not be used interchangeably in daily practice or in clinical research. Copyright © 2015 ISUOG. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

