title: Identifying Quantitative In Vivo Multi-Parametric MRI Features For Treatment Related Changes after Laser Interstitial Thermal Therapy of Prostate Cancer

## Viswanath, Satish and Toth, Robert and Rusu, Mirabela and Sperling, Dan and Lepor, Herbert and Futterer, Jurgen and Madabhushi, Anant
Neurocomputing

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2014.03.065">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) is a new therapeutic strategy being explored in prostate cancer (CaP), which involves focal ablation of organlocalized tumor via an interstitial laser fiber. While little is known about treatment-related changes following LITT, studying post-LITT changes via imaging is extremely significant for enabling early image-guided intervention and follow-up. In this work, we present the first attempt at examining focal treatment-related changes on a per-voxel basis via quantitative comparison of MRI features pre- and post-LITT, and hence identifying computerized MRI features that are highly sensitive as well as specific to post-LITT changes within the ablation zone in the prostate. A retrospective cohort of 5 patient datasets comprising both pre- and post-LITT T2-weighted (T2w) and diffusion-weighted (DWI) acquisitions was considered, where DWI MRI yielded an Apparent Diffusion Co-efficient (ADC) map. Our scheme involved (1) inter-protocol registration of T2w and ADC MRI, as well as inter-acquisition registration of pre- and post-LITT MRI, (2) quantitation of MRI parameters by correcting for intensity drift in order to examine tissuespecific response, and (3) quantification of the information captured by T2w MRI and ADC maps via texture and intensity features. Correction of parameter drift resulted in visually discernible improvements in highlighting tissue-specific response in different MRI features. Quantitative, voxel-wise comparison of the changes in different MRI features indicated that steerable and non-steerable gradient texture features, rather than the original T2w intensity and ADC values, were highly sensitive as well as specific in identifying changes within the ablation zone pre- and post-LITT. The highest ranked texture feature yielded a normalized percentage change of 186% within the ablation zone and 43% in a spatially distinct normal region, relative to its pre-LITT value. By comparison, both the original T2w intensity and ADC value demonstrated a markedly less sensitive and specific response to changes within the ablation zone. Qualitative as well as quantitative evaluation of co-occurrence texture features indicated the presence of LITT-related effects such as edema adjacent to the ablation zone, which were indiscernible on the original T2w and ADC images. Our preliminary results thus indicate great potential for non-invasive computerized MRI imaging features for determining focal treatment related changes, informing image-guided interventions, as well as predicting long- and short-term patient outcome.

