title: Influence of lung injury on cardiac output measurement using transpulmonary ultrasound dilution: a validation study in neonatal lambs

## Vrancken, S. L. and de Boode, W. P. and Hopman, J. C. and Looijen-Salamon, M. G. and Liem, K. D. and van Heijst, A. F.
BJA

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/bja/aes297">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Transpulmonary ultrasound dilution (TPUD) is a promising method for cardiac output (CO) measurement in severely ill neonates. The incidence of lung injury in this population is high, which might influence CO measurement using TPUD because of altered lung perfusion. We evaluated the influence of lung injury on the accuracy and precision of CO measurement using TPUD in an animal model.In nine neonatal lambs, central venous and arterial catheters were inserted and connected to the TPUD monitor. Repeated lavages with warmed isotonic saline were performed to gradually induce lung injury. CO measurements with TPUD (COtpud) were compared with those obtained by an ultrasonic transit-time flow probe around the main pulmonary artery (COufp). An increase in oxygenation index was used as an indicator of induced lung injury during the experiment. Post-mortem lung injury was confirmed by histopathological examination.Fifty-five sessions of three paired CO measurements were analysed. The mean COufp was 1.53 litre min(-1) (range 0.66-2.35 litre min(-1)), and the mean COtpud was 1.65 litre min(-1) (range 0.78-2.91 litre min(-1)). The mean bias (standard deviation) between the two methods was 0.13 (0.15) litre min(-1) with limits of agreement of ±0.29 litre min(-1). The overall percentage error was 19.1%. The accuracy and precision did not change significantly during progressive lung injury. Histopathological severity scores were consistent with heterogeneous lung injury. The capability to track changes in CO using TPUD was moderate to good.The accuracy and precision of CO measurement using TPUD is not influenced in the presence of heterogeneous lung injury in an animal model.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Vran12.pdf:pdfVran12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>