title: Cost-Effectiveness of FDG-PET/CT for Cytologically Indeterminate Thyroid Nodules: a Decision Analytic Approach

## Vriens, D. and Adang, Emm and Netea-Maier, Rt and Smit, Jwa and de Wilt, Jhw and Oyen, Wjg and de Geus-Oei, Lf
JCLINEM

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1210/jc.2013-3483">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Context: Patients with thyroid nodules of indeterminate cytology undergo diagnostic surgery according to current guidelines. In 75% of patients, the nodule is benign. In these patients, surgery was unnecessary and unbeneficial as complications may occur. Preoperative FDG-PET/CT was found to have a very high negative predictive value (96%) and might therefore avoid futile surgery, complications and costs. In the USA, two molecular tests of cytology material are routinely used for this purpose. Objective: 5-year cost-effectiveness for routine implementation of FDG-PET/CT was evaluated in adult patients with indeterminate fine-needle aspiration cytology and compared with surgery in all patients and both molecular tests. Design: A Markov decision model was developed to synthesize the evidence on cost-effectiveness about the four alternative strategies. The model was probabilistically analysed. One-way sensitivity analyses of deterministic input variables likely to influence outcome were performed. Setting and Subjects: The model was representative for adult patients with cytologically indeterminate thyroid nodules. Main Outcome Measures: The discounted incremental Net Monetary Benefit (iNMB), the efficiency decision rule containing outcomes as quality adjusted life years (QALY) and (direct) medical cost, of implementation of FDG-PET/CT is displayed. Results: Full implementation of FDG-PET/CT resulted in 40% surgery for benign nodules, compared to 75% in the conventional approach, without a difference in recurrence free and overall survival. The FDG-PET/CT modality is the more efficient technology, with a mean iNMB of € 3,684 compared to surgery in all. Also, compared to a gene expression classifier test and a molecular marker panel, the mean iNMB of FDG-PET/CT was € 1,030 and € 3,851, respectively and consequently the more efficient alternative. Conclusion: Full implementation of preoperative FDG-PET/CT in patients with indeterminate thyroid nodules could prevent up to 47% of current unnecessary surgery leading to lower costs and modest increase of health-related quality of life. Compared to an approach with diagnostic surgery in all patients and both molecular tests, it is the least expensive alternative with similar effectiveness as the gene-expression classifier.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Vrie14.pdf:pdfVrie14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>