title: Non-glycosylated BMP-2 can induce ectopic bone formation at lower concentrations compared to glycosylated BMP-2

## van de Watering, F C J. and van den Beucken, J J J P. and van der Woning, S. P. and Briest, A. and Eek, A. and Qureshi, H. and Winnubst, L. and Boerman, O. C. and Jansen, J. A.
JCONREL

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jconrel.2011.12.041">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Bone morphogenic protein-2 (BMP-2) is a well-known growth factor that can improve the biological performance of bone substitute materials. BMP-2 produced via bacterial expression systems are non-glycosylated (ng) whereas native and recombinant equivalents produced in mammalian cell expression systems are glycosylated (g) proteins. ngBMP-2 is less soluble, resulting in lower BMP-2 release from carriers as used as bone substitute materials. This seems promising for reducing the amount of included growth factor in bone substitute materials. Hence, it was hypothesized that ngBMP-2 would induce formation of the same amount of bone at an ectopic site at lower dosage as gBMP-2. To that end, gBMP-2 and ngBMP-2 were firstly in vitro comparatively evaluated for biological activity and release from a calcium phosphate (CaP) based bone substitute material. Thereafter, an ectopic implantation model in rats was used, in which gBMP-2 and ngBMP2 were loaded in various dosages (2-20 μg/implant) on the CaP-based bone substitute material and implanted for 4 and 12 weeks. The results revealed that both the in vitro biological activity of and the in vitro release of ngBMP-2 are lower compared to gBMP2. Upon ectopic implantation, however, ngBMP-2 loaded implants induced more bone formation at lower concentrations from 4-weeks onward compared to gBMP-2 equivalents, indicating the value of ngBMP-2 as a potential alternative for mammalian produced recombinant BMP-2 for bone regenerative therapies.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Wate12a.pdf:pdfWate12a.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>