title: Ferumoxtran-10 MR lymphography for target definition and follow-up in a patient undergoing image-guided, dose-escalated radiotherapy of lymph nodes upon PSA relapse

## Anja M Weidner and Emile N J Th van Lin and Dietmar J Dinter and Tom Rozema and Stefan O Schoenberg and Frederik Wenz and Jelle O Barentsz and Frank Lohr
STRONK

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00066-010-2195-1">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Evaluation of the lymph node situation in patients with prostate cancer is essential for effective radiotherapy. Using magnet resonance imaging (MRI) of the lymph nodes with ferumoxtran-10 (MR lymphography), it is possible to detect lymph node metastasis. We present our initial experience with ferumoxtran-10 MR lymphography as the basis for image-guided, dose-escalated lymph node radiotherapy and for early follow-up after radiotherapy.A patient with suspicion for lymph node metastasis after radical prostatectomy was examined with MR lymphography with the lymph node-specific contrast media ferumoxtran-10. Radiotherapy was performed as intensity-modulated radiotherapy with a total dose of 44 Gy to the whole lymphatic drainage, 60 Gy to the area of affected lymph nodes, 71 Gy to the prostate bed, and 75 Gy to the anastomosis region. 8 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, a follow-up MR lymphography with ferumoxtran-10 was performed.In the first MRI with ferumoxtran-10, 5 metastatic lymph nodes were found in the iliac region. The scan 8 weeks postradiotherapy no longer showed lymph nodes suspicious for metastases. PSA (prostate-specific antigen) decreased from 2.06 ng/ml pretherapeutically to 0.02 ng/ml at 2 weeks after treatment and was no longer detectable at 8 months after treatment.Lymph node staging with ferumoxtran-10 and subsequent dose escalation with intensity-modulated radiotherapy led to the elimination of positive lymph nodes and a decrease in the PSA value.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Weid11.pdf:pdfWeid11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>