title: Diagnostic value of magnetic resonance lymphography in preoperative staging of clinically negative necks in squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity: A pilot study

## B. M. Wensing and W. M L L G Deserno and R. B J de Bondt and H. A M Marres and M. A W Merkx and J. O. Barentsz and F. J A van den Hoogen
OO

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oraloncology.2011.07.020">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Pilot study evaluating the diagnostic value of magnetic resonance lymphography (MRL) compared with conventional imaging techniques in the preoperative staging of the clinically (palpable) negative neck (cN0) in squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity (SCCOC). Patients with SCCOC without clinical evidence of lymph node metastasis and scheduled for surgery underwent MRL in combination with ultrasound with or without fine needle aspiration cytology and multi-detector computer tomography. MRL images were interpreted by 2 independent radiologists. All patients were planned for resection of the primary tumor and a selective neck dissection of levels I-III. Histopathologic results were evaluated as the gold standard and compared with preoperative findings. One of nine evaluated patients had a metastatic node on histopathologic analysis. In all but 1 patient, MRL showed possible metastatic spread in at least 1 node. On a node-to-node basis, negative predictive value (NPV) and sensitivity reached 100% for 1.5- en 3Tesla (T) MRL, specificity reached 92% at 1.5T and 93% at 3T MRL, and positive predictive value (PPV) was 8% at 1.5T MRL, for both radiologists. PPV at 3T MRL was 10% and 9%, for radiologists I and II, respectively. This pilot study shows that MRL has a high NPV based on a node-to-node analysis. However, its PPV was only 10%, and therefore its use as a single imaging technique in the preoperative staging of the cN0 neck in SCCOC seems to be limited. Further studies are needed to confirm these data.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Wens11.pdf:pdfWens11.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>