title: Magnetic resonance imaging of the carotid artery in long-term head and neck cancer survivors treated with radiotherapy

## Wilbers, Joyce and Meijer, Frederick J A. and Kappelle, Arnoud C. and Kaanders, Johannes H. and Boogerd, Willem and Dorresteijn, Lucille D. and van Dijk, Ewoud J. and Steens, Stefan C A.
ACTONC

<a href="https://doi.org/10.3109/0284186X.2015.1023901">DOI</a>

## Abstract
In head and neck cancer (HNC) patients, long-term treatment-related complications include radiotherapy (RT)-induced carotid vasculopathy and stroke. The current study investigated the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of the carotid wall in long-term HNC survivors treated with RT.MRI of the carotid arteries was performed within a prospective cohort of 42 HNC patients on average 7 years after RT. Two independent radiologists assessed maximal vessel wall thickness of common and internal carotid arteries. In case of wall thickening (≥ 2 mm) the MRI signals as well as length of the thickened segment were assessed.Mean (SD) age of the 42 patients at baseline was 53 (13) years and mean (SD) follow-up time after RT was 6.8 (1.3) years. In total 62% were men and 60% had one or more cerebrovascular risk factors. Mean (SD) dose of RT on the common carotid arteries and internal carotid arteries was 57 Gy (11) and 61 Gy (10), respectively. Wall thickening was observed in 58% of irradiated versus 27% of non-irradiated common carotid arteries and 24% of irradiated versus 6% of non-irradiated internal carotid arteries (p < 0.05). Mean (SD) thickness of the irradiated and non-irradiated common carotid arteries was 2.5 (0.9) and 2 (0.7) mm (p = 0.02). Mean thickness of the irradiated and non-irradiated internal carotid arteries was 1.8 (0.8) and 1.5 mm (0.3) (n.s.). Mean length of the thickened vessel wall was 48 mm versus 36 mm in the irradiated versus non-irradiated common carotid arteries (p = 0.03) and 20 mm versus 15 mm in the irradiated versus non-irradiated internal carotid arteries (n.s.). No significant differences were observed for signal intensities of the vessel walls.Our study showed significantly more vessel wall thickening in irradiated versus non-irradiated carotid arteries years after RT for HNC, while no differences in signal intensities were observed.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Wilb15.pdf:pdfWilb15.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>