title: Computed Tomography Pulmonary Angiography in Acute Pulmonary Embolism: The Effect of a Computer-assisted Detection Prototype Used as a Concurrent Reader

## Wittenberg, Rianne and Peters, Joost F. and van den Berk, Inge A H. and Freling, Nicole J M. and Lely, Rutger and de Hoop, Bartjan and Horsthuis, Karin and Ravesloot, C'ecile J. and Weber, Michael and Prokop, W Mathias and Schaefer-Prokop, Cornelia M.
JTI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1097/RTI.0b013e3182870b97">DOI</a>

## Abstract
PURPOSE:: To assess the effect of computer-assisted detection (CAD) on diagnostic accuracy, reader confidence, and reading time when used as a concurrent reader for the detection of acute pulmonary embolism in computed tomography pulmonary angiography. MATERIALS AND METHODS:: In this institutional review board-approved retrospective study, 6 observers with varying experience evaluated 158 negative and 38 positive consecutive computed tomography pulmonary angiographies (mean patient age 60 y; 115 women) without and with CAD as a concurrent reader. Readers were asked to determine the presence of pulmonary embolism, assess their diagnostic confidence using a 5-point scale, and document their reading time. Results were compared with an independent standard established by 2 readers, and a third chest radiologist was consulted in case of discordant findings. RESULTS:: Using logistic regression for repeated measurements, we found a significant increase in readers' sensitivity (P<0.001) without loss of specificity (P=0.855) with the effects being reader dependent (P<0.001). Sensitivities varied from 68% to 100% without CAD and from 76% to 100% with CAD. A 2-way analysis of variance showed a small but significant decrease in reading time (P<0.001), with the duration varying between 24 and 208 seconds without CAD and between 17 and 196 seconds with CAD, and a significant increase in readers' confidence scores using CAD as a concurrent reader (P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS:: CAD as a concurrent reader has the potential to increase readers' sensitivity and confidence with a decrease in reading time without loss of specificity. The differences between readers, however, require further evaluation of CAD as a concurrent reader in a larger trial before stronger conclusions can be drawn.

