title: Final screening round of the NELSON lung cancer screening trial: the effect of a 2.5-year screening interval.

## Yousaf-Khan, Uraujh and van der Aalst, Carlijn and de Jong, Pim A. and Heuvelmans, Marjolein and Scholten, Ernst and Lammers, Jan-Willem and van Ooijen, Peter and Nackaerts, Kristiaan and Weenink, Carla and Groen, Harry and Vliegenthart, Rozemarijn and Ten Haaf, Kevin and Oudkerk, Matthijs and de Koning, Harry
Thorax

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1136/thoraxjnl-2016-208655">DOI</a>

## Abstract
In the USA annual lung cancer screening is recommended. However, the optimal screening strategy (eg, screening interval, screening rounds) is unknown. This study provides results of the fourth screening round after a 2.5-year interval in the Dutch-Belgian Lung Cancer Screening trial (NELSON).Europe's largest, sufficiently powered randomised lung cancer screening trial was designed to determine whether low-dose CT screening reduces lung cancer mortality by ?25% compared with no screening after 10?years of follow-up. The screening arm (n=7915) received screening at baseline, after 1 year, 2 years and 2.5?years. Performance of the NELSON screening strategy in the final fourth round was evaluated. Comparisons were made between lung cancers detected in the first three rounds, in the final round and during the 2.5-year interval.In round 4, 46 cancers were screen-detected and there were 28 interval cancers between the third and fourth screenings. Compared with the second round screening (1-year interval), in round 4 a higher proportion of stage IIIb/IV cancers (17.3% vs 6.8%, p=0.02) and higher proportions of squamous-cell, bronchoalveolar and small-cell carcinomas (p=0.001) were detected. Compared with a 2-year interval, the 2.5-year interval showed a higher non-significant stage distribution (stage IIIb/IV 17.3% vs 5.2%, p=0.10). Additionally, more interval cancers manifested in the 2.5-year interval than in the intervals of previous rounds (28 vs 5 and 28 vs 19).A 2.5-year interval reduced the effect of screening: the interval cancer rate was higher compared with the 1-year and 2-year intervals, and proportion of advanced disease stage in the final round was higher compared with the previous rounds.ISRCTN63545820.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Yous16.pdf:pdfYous16.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>