title: Circulating CD4+ T-cells that produce IL-4 or IL-17 when stimulated by Melan-A but not by NY-ESO-1 have negative impacts on survival of stage IV melanoma patients

## Zelba, Henning and Weide, Benjamin and Martens, Alexander and Derhovanessian, Evelyna and Kini Bailur, Jithendra and Kyzirakos, Christina and Pflugfelder, Annette and Eigentler, Thomas K. and Di Giacomo, Anna Maria and Maio, Michele and Aarntzen, Erik H J G. and de Vries, I Jolanda M. and Sucker, Antje and Schadendorf, Dirk and Buttner, Petra and Garbe, Claus and Pawelec, Graham
CLINCR

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1015">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Purpose: We initially observed that the presence of circulating NY-ESO-1- and/or Melan-A-specific T-cells in stage IV melanoma patients was significantly associated with prolonged survival. Here we report on how the phenotypes and functions of these T-cells differentially impact survival in patients pre-selected for NY-ESO-1 and/or Melan-A reactivity. Experimental Design: We assayed functional antigen-reactive T-cells recognizing NY-ESO-1 and/or Melan-A after in vitro stimulation using overlapping peptide pools. After restimulation, we assayed six cytokines simultaneously by intracellular cytokine staining. This allowed us to analyze the functional antigen-response of both CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells at the single-cell level. Results: We observed that NY-ESO-1 stimulated mainly CD4+ T-cells, whereas Melan-A more often stimulated CD8+ T-cells. NY-ESO-1-reactivity was not associated with an additional impact on survival whether CD4+ or CD8+ T-cells or both were responding. In contrast, recognition of Melan-A by CD4+ T-cells was associated with reduced survival in our cohort of patients pre-selected for NY-ESO-1 and/or Melan-A reactivity i.e. in patients with exceptionally long survival. We further observed a negative effect on survival in patients with CD4+ T-cells producing IL-4 and IL-17 upon Melan-A stimulation. Their prognosis was comparable to patients without any Melan-A reactivity. Conclusions: The nature and prognostic impact of specific T cell responses is different according to targeted antigen. Independent from phenotype and functional aspects, NY-ESO-1-reactivity is associated with good prognosis. For Melan-A, antigen-specific CD8+, but not CD4+ responses are associated with prolonged survival.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Zelb14.pdf:pdfZelb14.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>