title: Novel proton MR spectroscopy findings in adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency

## Zulfiqar, Maria and Lin, Doris D M. and Van der Graaf, Marinette and Barker, Peter B. and Fahrner, Jill A. and Marie, Sandrine and Morava, Eva and De Boer, Lonneke and Willemsen, Michel A A P. and Vining, Eileen and Horsk'a, Alena and Engelke, Udo and Wevers, Ron A. and Maegawa, Gustavo H B.
JMRI

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/jmri.23852">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism resulting in accumulation of metabolites including succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside (SAICAr) and succinyladenosine (S-Ado) in the brain and other tissues. Patients with ADSL have progressive psychomotor retardation, neonatal seizures, global developmental delay, hypotonia, and autistic features, although variable clinical manifestations may make the initial diagnosis challenging. Two cases of the severe form of the disease are reported here: an 18-month-old boy with global developmental delay, intractable neonatal seizures, progressive cerebral atrophy, and marked hypomyelination, and a 3-month-old girl presenting with microcephaly, neonatal seizures, and marked psychomotor retardation. In both patients in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) showed the presence of S-Ado signal at 8.3 ppm, consistent with a prior report. Interestingly, SAICAr signal was also detectable at 7.5 ppm in affected white matter, which has not been reported in vivo before. A novel splice-site mutation, c.IVS12 + 1/G > C, in the ADSL gene was identified in the second patient. Our findings confirm the utility of in vivo proton MRS in suggesting a specific diagnosis of ADSL deficiency, and also demonstrate an additional in vivo resonance (7.5 ppm) of SAICAr in the cases of severe disease. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2012. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send Zulf12.pdf:pdfZulf12.pdf:PDF by e-mail"></form>