title: Safety and Immunogenicity of Adenovirus 35 TB Vaccine Candidate in Adults with Active or Previous TB: a Randomized Trial.

## van Zyl-Smit, Richard N and Esmail, Aliasgar and Bateman, Mary E and Dawson, Rodney and Goldin, Jonathan and van Rikxoort, Eva and Douoguih, Macaya and Pau, Maria Grazia and Sadoff, Jerald C and McClain, J Bruce and Snowden, Margaret Ann and Benko, Jacqueline and Hokey, David A and Rutkowski, Kathryn Tucker and Graves, Andrew and Shepherd, Barbara and Ishmukhamedov, Sadritdin and Kagina, Benjamin M N and Abel, Brian and Hanekom, Willem A and Scriba, Thomas J and Bateman, Eric D
American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine

<a href="https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.201603-0654OC">DOI</a>

## Abstract
Administration of tuberculosis vaccines in participants with previous or current pulmonary tuberculosis may have the potential for causing harmful post-vaccination immunological (Koch-type) reactions. To assess the safety and immunogenicity of three dose levels of the AERAS-402 live, replication-deficient adenovirus 35-vectored tuberculosis candidate vaccine, containing three mycobacterial antigens, in individuals with current or previous pulmonary tuberculosis. We performed a phase II randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded dose-escalation study in an HIV-negative adult South African cohort (n=72) with active pulmonary tuberculosis (on treatment for 1- 4 months) or pulmonary TB treated at least 12 months before study entry and considered cured. Safety endpoints included clinical assessment, flow volume curves, diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide, pulse oximetry, chest-X-ray, and high-resolution thoracic computerized tomography scans. Cytokine expression by CD4 and CD8 T cells, following stimulation with Ag85A, Ag85B and TB10.4 peptide pools, was examined by intracellular cytokine staining. No apparent temporal or dose-related changes in clinical status (specifically acute, Koch phenomenon-like reactions), lung function, or radiology attributable to vaccine were observed. Injection site reactions were mild or moderate. Hematuria (by dipstick only) occurred in 25(41%) of 61 AERAS-402 recipients and 3(27%) of 11 placebo recipients, although no gross hematuria was reported. AERAS-402 induced robust CD8+ and moderate CD4+ T cell responses, mainly to Ag85B in both vaccine groups. Administration of the AERAS-402 candidate tuberculosis vaccine to participants with current or previous pulmonary tuberculosis induced a robust immune response and is not associated with clinically significant pulmonary complications. Clinical trial registration available at www.clinicaltrials.gov, ID NCT02414828.

A <b>pdf file</b> of this publication is available for personal use.Enter your e-mail address in the box below and press the button. You will receive an e-mail message with a link to the pdf file.
<form action="sender.php">  <input type="text" name="email">  <input type="submit" value="Send :Zyl-17 - Safety and Immunogenicity of Adenovirus 35 TB Vaccine Candidate in Adults with Active or Previous TB_ a Randomized Trial..201603-0654OC: by e-mail"></form>